* BASGRA: The BASic GRAssland model

** Table of Contents

-  1 Introduction

   -  1.1 Model history

-  2 Quick start

   -  2.1 TO MAKE EVERYTHING READY FOR RUNNING BASGRA:

   -  2.2 TO RUN THE MODEL for default conditions:

   -  2.3 TO INSPECT MODEL OUTPUT in RStudio after a run:

   -  2.4 TO RUN THE MODEL FOR A DIFFERENT SITE OR YEAR:

   -  2.5 TO APPLY BAYESIAN CALIBRATION to model parameters

   -  2.6 TO FIND MORE DETAILS OF THESE AND OTHER MODELLING PROCEDURES:

-  3 General overview of the model

   -  3.1 What processes does BASGRA simulate?

   -  3.2 State variables

   -  3.3 Inputs

   -  3.4 Outputs

   -  3.5 Technical details

      -  3.5.1 General set-up using FORTRAN and R

      -  3.5.2 Directories and files

      -  3.5.3 Modules and subroutines

      -  3.5.4 Variables, parameters and constants

      -  3.5.5 Model time-step

-  4 Details of processes and algorithms

   -  4.1 Weather

   -  4.2 Soil temperature

   -  4.3 Water balance

      -  4.3.1 Soil frost depth dynamics

      -  4.3.2 Snow melt

      -  4.3.3 Effects of drought on transpiration and other plant
         processes

   -  4.4 Phenology

   -  4.5 Light interception

   -  4.6 Carbon balance

   -  4.7 Photosynthesis

   -  4.8 Carbon allocation

   -  4.9 Dynamics of reserves

   -  4.10 Leaf area dynamics and tillering

   -  4.11 Senescence

   -  4.12 Hardening and the impact of frost

   -  4.13 The impact of anaerobic conditions

   -  4.14 The impact of harvesting

-  5 Installing FORTRAN, R and RStudio

   -  5.1 Install gfortran

   -  5.2 Install R

   -  5.3 Install RStudio

-  6 Installing the model files

-  7 Compiling the model

   -  7.1 Removing the previous DLL

-  8 Initialising the model

   -  8.1 Step 1: General initialisation

      -  8.1.1 'outputNameList'

      -  8.1.2 'plotOutputs'

   -  8.2 Step 2: Site-specific initialisation

      -  8.2.1 Weather files

      -  8.2.2 Cutting dates

      -  8.2.3 Parameter values

-  9 Running the model

   -  9.1 Running the model with pre-defined settings

   -  9.2 Running with different settings of your own choosing

   -  9.3 Running a batch job, i.e. a series of runs

-  10 Selecting and examining model outputs

   -  10.1 Choosing different output variables

   -  10.2 Examining output

      -  10.2.1 Matrix variable 'output'

      -  10.2.2 Graphs

      -  10.2.3 Comparing outputs from multiple runs:
         'run\_BASGRA\_3par\_plotAllOutputs.R'

      -  10.2.4 Comparing outputs from multiple runs:
         'run\_BASGRA\_3par\_plotAgainstData.R'

-  11 Changing model structure

-  12 Bayesian calibration (BC)

   -  12.1 STEP 1: Selecting parameters for calibration

   -  12.2 STEP 2: Defining the prior probability distribution

      -  12.2.1 Parameter constraints

   -  12.3 STEP 3: Selecting calibration data

   -  12.4 STEP 4: Defining the likelihood function

   -  12.5 STEP 5: Running the MCMC

   -  12.6 STEP 6: Analysing the outcome of the MCMC

   -  12.7 On single-site BC vs. multi-site BC

   -  12.8 On running the BC with different settings and/or different
      data

-  13 Publications on BASGRA and related models

-  14 References cited

-  15 APPENDIX I: FORTRAN files and subroutines

-  16 APPENDIX II: Variables

   -  16.1 Introductory comments

      -  16.1.1 Types of variables

   -  16.2 State variables (BASGRA.f90)

   -  16.3 Non-state variables (BASGRA.f90)

   -  16.4 Variables (readweather.f90)

   -  16.5 Variables (environment.f90)

   -  16.6 Variables (soil.f90)

   -  16.7 Variables (resources.f90)

   -  16.8 Variables (plant.f90)

-  17 APPENDIX III: Parameters

   -  17.1 Introductory comments

   -  17.2 Parameters in BASGRA.f90

   -  17.3 Parameters in environment.f90

   -  17.4 Parameters in soil.f90

   -  17.5 Parameters in resources.f90

   -  17.6 Parameters in plant.f90

-  18 APPENDIX IV: Constants

   -  18.1 Introductory comments

   -  18.2 Constants in BASGRA.f90

   -  18.3 Constants in read\_weather.f90

   -  18.4 Constants in environment.f90

   -  18.5 Constants in soil.f90

   -  18.6 Constants in resources.f90

   -  18.7 Constants in plant.f90

** 1 Introduction

This document contains general documentation and a user manual for the
grassland model BASGRA. The name of the model stands for BASic GRAssland
model, reflecting the intention to represent processes in simple ways.
Despite this, the aim is to make the model widely applicable by
simulating the impacts of a wide range of environmental drivers. BASGRA
simulates the growth and survival of grassland swards for any period of
time, so the user can decide whether to run the model just for a short
growing season, a winter period, or for a sequence of whole years. The
version of the model documented here is that of 19 September 2014.

*** 1.1 Model history

The first version of the model was called LINGRA and was developed in
Wageningen by Ad Schapendonk and colleagues. LINGRA simulated only the
growing season. To make the model usable for studying climate change
impacts, the effect of CO2 and temperature on the light-use efficiency
of the sward was included (Rodriguez et al. 1999). Most of the further
development of the model took place in Norway at Planteforsk, Saerheim
(now Bioforsk). Whereas the Wageningen version of the model was mainly
used for perennial ryegrass, the model was changed in Norway to allow
simulation of timothy (Phleum pratense) as well. For that purpose,
tillering was simulated in greater detail, distinguishing elongating
from non-elongating tillers (Höglind et al. 2001; Van Oijen et al.
2005). Algorithms for winter processes were developed by Stig Morten
Thorsen and colleagues (Thorsen et al. 2010, Thorsen & Höglind 2010).
More recently, the model code was translated into FORTRAN by David
Cameron, and the 'summer' and 'winter' processes were linked together,
producing the year-round model now called BASGRA.

** 2 Quick start

*** 2.1 TO MAKE EVERYTHING READY FOR RUNNING BASGRA:

-  Install R, RStudio and gfortran on your computer.

-  Unzip 'BASGRA\_2014-09-19.zip'.

*** 2.2 TO RUN THE MODEL for default conditions:

-  Double-click on 'run\_BASGRA\_Saerheim\_00\_early\_Gri' to open the
   file in RStudio.

-  Click on 'Source' to run the file.

*** 2.3 TO INSPECT MODEL OUTPUT in RStudio after a run:

-  Click on the 'Plots' tab and use the arrows to see different plots.

-  Study the variable called 'output' which contains the values of all
   output variables, for every simulated day.

-  The names and units of all output variables are listed in variables
   'outputNames and 'outputUnits'.

*** 2.4 TO RUN THE MODEL FOR A DIFFERENT SITE OR YEAR:

-  Make and use your own files 'run\_BASGRA\_[].R' and
   'initialise\_BASGRA\_[..].R'.

*** 2.5 TO APPLY BAYESIAN CALIBRATION to model parameters

-  Run 'BC\_BASGRA\_Saerheim\_00\_early\_Gri.R' and inspect, outside
   RStudio, the pdf-files and txt-file that it produces.

   -  Note that this calibration uses MCMC which means that the model is
      run many times in a loop, so this takes longer than a single model
      run. Also note that the default setting of 1000 iterations in the
      Markov chain (which for this calibration is set in file
      ‘BC\_BASGRA\_MCMC\_init\_Saerheim\_00\_early\_Gri.R' in directory
      ‘BC') runs is actually too short. Use 10\^4 - 10\^5 runs for
      proper calibration.

*** 2.6 TO FIND MORE DETAILS OF THESE AND OTHER MODELLING PROCEDURES:

-  See other chapters of this manual.

** 3 General overview of the model

*** 3.1 What processes does BASGRA simulate?

BASGRA simulates year-round processes in grassland swards: growth and
development during the growing season and survival over the winter.
Interactions with the atmospheric and soil environment are simulated in
some detail. This includes the role of management, i.e. cutting and
irrigation. During winter, the model keeps track of the dynamics of
water in its various forms: ice-formation below- and aboveground, snow
cover, storage of liquid water within snow, soil and surface pools.
Damage by frost and by anaerobic conditions under ice accelerate
senescence depending on the degree to which the plants were hardened.
During the growing season, the environment is less complicated. Water
still cycles between soil, plants and atmosphere, but is only present in
liquid form. Plant physiology is then very active: photosynthesis,
respiration, dynamics of reserves and allocation, leaf area dynamics,
tillering, water uptake. Growth depends on the strength of both the
source (photosynthesis and remobilisation of reserves) and the sinks
(the carbon-demand of growing organs and of the hardening process). The
major occasional disturbance is removal of tillers and leaves by
cutting, with subsequent regrowth of the sward. Regrowth rate depends on
the phenological stage at which cutting took place and on the magnitudes
of sources and sinks. BASGRA is a one-dimensional model in that it keeps
track of the height of snow cover and the depth to which soil is frozen.
Horizontal heterogeneity of soil and sward is not captured. The model
also does not simulate nitrogen relations.

*** 3.2 State variables

BASGRA has 23 state variables. 13 of those variables quantify the state
of the plants, the others represent the above- and belowground
environment in which the plants grow. Three types of state variables can
be distinguished: variables for mass, form and function. The figure
shows the state variables in each category, with the names they have in
the computer code. Variable names, units and meanings are listed in the
Appendices.

[[file:media/image1.PNG]]

*** 3.3 Inputs

The major inputs to the model are time series of weather variables:
radiation, temperature, precipitation, wind speed and humidity. The last
two of these are only used in the calculation of potential rates of
evaporation and transpiration. The model can also be used in a different
way, where wind speed and humidity are not provided but potential
evapotranspiration itself is an input. Further, the model requires time
series indicating at which days the grass is cut. Given the typically
short time periods of simulation, atmospheric CO2 concentration is not
provided as a time series but as a constant. Soil properties, such as
parameters of water retention, are also provided as constants.

*** 3.4 Outputs

The model generates 35 different output variables, which include the 23
state variables. BASGRA does not simulate some variables which are very
important in grassland productivity, such as digestibility and fibre
content of the harvested material, but these are closely related to
leaf:stem ration which the model can calculate. The selection of output
variables can be altered by the model user.

*** 3.5 Technical details

**** 3.5.1 General set-up using FORTRAN and R

BASGRA is written in FORTRAN and R. Simulations are run from
script-files in R, which:

1. set the time period of simulation,

2. identify the weather file,

3. set the cutting dates,

4. set parameter values,

5. call FORTRAN to iteratively calculate rates and states,

6. collect the output,

7. make plots.

**** 3.5.2 Directories and files

When the zip-file is unzipped, there will be seven directories: the
master directory plus six subdirectories called 'BC', 'data',
'initialisation', 'model', 'parameters', 'weather'. We shall now give a
short overview of the files contained in the seven directories. More
details on some of the files will appear in later sections. The master
directory contains:

-  2 script-files in R for model running: 'run\_[].R'

-  2 script-files in R for model calibration: 'BC\_[].R'

-  2 compiled model files: 'BASGRA\_[].DLL'

-  2 batch files for compiling the model: 'compile\_BASGRA\_[].bat'

-  1 script-file in R showing examples of how to work with BASGRA:
   'INTRODUCTION\_EXAMPLES\_BASGRA2014.R'

Subdirectory 'model' contains:

-  3 FORTRAN files for model parameterisation: 'parameters\_[].f90' and
   'set\_params.f90'

-  5 FORTRAN files that contain the model proper, i.e. the calculations
   of rates and states.

Subdirectory 'BC' contains:

-  3 files defining different likelihood functions: 'fLogL[].R'

-  3 script-files in R for initialising a Bayesian calibration:
   'BC\_BASGRA\_MCMC\_init\_[].R'

-  1 script-file in R for running the Bayesian Calibration by means of
   the Markov Chain Monte Carlo method of Metropolis:
   'BC\_BASGRA\_MCMC.R'

-  1 script-file in R for writing the modes of the prior and posterior
   parameter distributions plus other calibration results to txt-file:
   'BC\_export\_parModes.R'

-  3 script-files in R for plotting calibration results: 'BC\_plot[].R'

Subdirectory 'data' contains:

-  4 files with calibration data: 'data\_calibration\_[].txt'

Subdirectory 'initialisation' contains:

-  6 script-files in R for model initialisation: 'initialise\_[].R'

Subdirectory 'model' contains:

-  8 FORTRAN files that together define BASGRA.

Subdirectory 'parameters' contains:

-  1 file with default values of all parameters: ‘parameters.txt'.

-  2 txt-files listing parameters that can be calibrated, with their
   prior minimum, mode and maximum 'parameters\_BC\_[].txt'

Subdirectory 'weather' contains:

-  1 file with weather data in 'weather generator' format:
   'AP\_BCM\_AB1\_2050\_year1.txt'

-  2 files with weather data in 'Bioforsk' format: 'weather\_[].txt'

-  1 README-file explaining the 'Bioforsk' format

**** 3.5.3 Modules and subroutines

In each FORTRAN file ('[].f90'), the code is organised in one module
with the same name as the file, and/or one or more subroutines. Modules
make it easy to make variables declared in one file accessible in
another. Variables declared in the first lines of module A can be
accessed from module B if a 'use A'-statement is inserted there.
However, we use the module-method only for intermediate variables. [See
next section for an explanation of the different variable types.] State
and rate variables are passed through the headers of subroutines. A
table provided as one of the Appendices shows in which subroutine of
which file/module each rate variable is being calculated.

-  Notes on programming style

   -  In cases of modules which contain multiple subroutines (such as in
      'plant.f90' and 'environment.f90'), the subroutines are sorted
      from high to low level, i.e. subroutines that are being called
      follow the 'calling' subroutines. Low-level subroutines are also
      indented more.

   -  Each subroutine follows a standardised structure:

      -  Subroutine NAME(INPUTS alphabetically,[space or
         newline],OUTPUTS alphabetically)

      -  INPUTS alphabetically

      -  OUTPUTS alphabetically

      -  LOCAL VARIABLES alphabetically

      -  BODY of subroutine

      -  end Subroutine NAME

**** 3.5.4 Variables, parameters and constants

Like most models, BASGRA contains five types of variables: states,
rates, inputs, outputs and intermediate variables. State variables
represent basic quantities. Rate variables quantify by how much the
states are changed every time step. Rates are calculated as functions of
states and input variables read-in by the model. Complicated rate
calculations are made readable by the use of intermediate variables.
Output variables play no role in the rate calculations, but are
calculated only for user interest. Besides variables, BASGRA also
contains parameters and constants. Both have fixed values, but
parameters are considered uncertain or site-specific whereas the values
given to constants are considered known and universal. So only
parameters can be calibrated. Complete lists of all variables,
parameters and constants in BASGRA can be found in the Appendices.

-  Units\\
   The dimensions of the variables, parameters and constants are
   expressed in units according to a common pattern. Time is in days,
   length in meters, mass in g carbon or kg water, temperature in
   degrees Celsius. For example, leaf biomass is in g C m-2 and
   transpiration rate in kg H2O m-2 d-1 (which we refer to as mm d-1).
   Some output variables do not follow this pattern, e.g. total
   aboveground biomass is given in kg dry matter m-2.

**** 3.5.5 Model time-step

The model has a time step of one day.

** 4 Details of processes and algorithms

*** 4.1 Weather

The model reads weather data from file. The files must include daily
data for radiation, temperature and precipitation. For other variables
there are two options: either relative humidity and wind speed are
provided or potential evapotranspiration rate. BASGRA includes an
algorithm to determine whether the precipitation falls as rain or snow.
More details on the structure of the weather files are given below, in
the section on 'Preparing for a model run: input and initialisation
files'.

*** 4.2 Soil temperature

BASGRA does not calculate the vertical temperature profile in the soil.
It does calculate the temperature at the soil surface, as a function of
atmospheric temperature, snow depth and soil frost depth. Snow cover
makes soil surface temperature closer to zero degrees, the impact of
frost depth is more complex.

*** 4.3 Water balance

The water balance in BASGRA is characterized by eight state variables.
Two of these are variables of form, representing snow cover height and
soil frost depth. The remaining six state variables are variables of
mass of water in different phases (liquid, snow, ice), above- and
belowground. The relationships between the six mass state variables and
the rates that modify them are depicted in the figure.

[[file:media/image2.PNG]]

During the growing season all water states tend to be zero, except for
the pool of liquid water in the soil (state variable WAL). BASGRA then
acts as a model with a single soil layer between surface and rooting
depth. Water is added to the soil pool by rain and irrigation, and by
root growth leading to exploration of deeper soil. Water availability to
plants is determined only by rooting depth, not root mass. Water is lost
from the soil through drainage, runoff, evaporation and transpiration by
plants. When snow falls, the state variable DRYSTOR (mass of snow per
unit ground area) becomes positive, and so is the state variable
representing the height of the snow pack. Snow can hold some liquid
water, represented by state variable WETSTOR. If soil surface
temperature is below the freezing point, soil water will start freezing
from the top. This is captured by state variable WAS for the mass of
soil ice and state variable Fdepth for its depth. Once frost depth
exceeds a threshold of 0.2 m, liquid water can no longer infiltrate the
soil and a surface pool of water is formed. The surface pool is subject
to freezing and thawing, and thus also requires two state variables to
represent the different phases (WAPL, WAPS). The threshold of 0.2 m is
based on a study which reported infiltration despite the presence of a
frozen soil layer 20-40 cm thick.

**** 4.3.1 Soil frost depth dynamics

The calculation of the rate of frost depth change is based on
energy-balance considerations. The rate is given by a simple function of
soil surface temperature and the amount of ice between the frost
boundary and the surface.

**** 4.3.2 Snow melt

The calculation of snow melt is based on an algorithm used by the
Norwegian Water Resources and Energy Directorate (NVE) for operational
snow information services. This uses a sinusoidal melt-index curve with
maximum snowmelt on day no 174 (23 June), and minimum snowmelt on day no
358 (23 December).

**** 4.3.3 Effects of drought on transpiration and other plant processes

The effect of soil water status on plants is mediated by the so-called
transpiration realisation factor (TRANRF). This intermediate variable is
calculated as a function of soil water content, soil water retention
characteristics (mainly wilting point and field capacity) and plant
transpirational demand for water. TRANRF has a value of one when soil
water content is not too far below field capacity, starts to fall when
water decreases below a critical level and reaches zero at wilting
point. Several plant processes are directly proportional to TRANRF,
including transpiration rate. Other processes affected will be mentioned
in the following sections.

*** 4.4 Phenology

BASGRA contains a state variable PHEN which represents the phenological
stage of the plants. PHEN increases daily at a rate that depends on
temperature and day length, and it is reset to zero after each cut.
Advancing phenological stage leads to reductions in leaf appearance rate
(RLEAF) and in the number of elongating leaves on non-elongating
tillers. Besides through state variable PHEN, day length also affects
some processes directly, as captured in intermediate variable DAYLGE.
This variable modifies RLEAF, leaf elongation rate on elongating
tillers, and the priorities of sinks in carbon allocation. Some of these
phenological algorithms are based on Helge Bonesmo's PhD-thesis model
for cv. Bodin.

*** 4.5 Light interception

Light interception is modelled by Beer's law with a constant light
extinction coefficient operating on the LAI. When there is snow cover, a
constant light extinction coefficient for snow operates too. Plants only
receive the light not intercepted by snow.

*** 4.6 Carbon balance

BASGRA has seven state variables for biomass. Five of these are the
carbon contents in roots, reserves, stubble, stems, and leaves. The
model also keeps track of carbon in dead and harvested leaves. The seven
state variables for carbon pools and the rates that modify them are
shown in the figure. The various processes depicted in the figure are
discussed in the following paragraphs.

[[file:media/image3.PNG]]

*** 4.7 Photosynthesis

The rate of photosynthesis is the product of intercepted radiation and
photosynthetic light-use efficiency (LUEMXQ), which is a function of
CO2, temperature, light intensity and Rubisco concentration of upper
leaves. LUEMXQ accounts for carbon lost to maintenance respiration, but
not growth respiration. So the calculated photosynthesis rate is gross
photosynthesis minus maintenance respiration. LUEMXQ starts decreasing
linearly when temperature drops below one degree Celsius until it
becomes zero at minus four degrees. It is also sensitive to drought and
decreases conform TRANRF (see section "Water balance").

*** 4.8 Carbon allocation

Carbon available for plant use, from photosynthesis and remobilised
reserves, is allocated to different sinks according to a system of
changing sink priorities and changing sink strengths. There are five
sinks: the processes of winter hardening, replenishment of the reserves
pool, root growth, stem growth, leaf growth. Sink strengths are defined
as the rate at which these processes would proceed with no source
limitation. The hardening process has top priority, so its demand is met
in full if source strength is large enough, irrespective of the four
other sinks. Root growth has lowest priority and depends on carbon
unused by other sinks. The other sinks have intermediate priorities
which change with day length. When day lengths are short, reserves have
higher priority than stems and leaves, with the opposite during the rest
of the year. Leaves and stems have equal priority so they receive carbon
according to their sink strengths.

*** 4.9 Dynamics of reserves

Reserves can be remobilized with a time constant of two days. When
temperature drops below five degrees Celsius, remobilisation slows down
until it stops completely at zero degrees.

*** 4.10 Leaf area dynamics and tillering

BASGRA represents tiller density by thre state variables: TILV
(vegetative tillers), TILG1 (non-elongating generative tillers) and
TILG2 (elongating generative tillers). The rate at which new vegetative
tillers are formed is proportional to leaf appearance rate, but
site-filling is reduced when LAI is high or reserve content is low. Leaf
appearance rate itself depends on temperature, at a constant
phyllochron, but slows down under drought, short day length, and when
the sward becomes dominated by elongating tillers at an advanced
phenological stage. The rate at which vegetative tillers move to the
generative category has a temperature optimum and is reduced at short
day lengths. Generative tillers move from the non-elongating to the
elongating tillers category at a constant daily rate as long as the day
length is above the minimum required for this process. For genotypes
with a vernalization requirement, this transition from vegetative to
non-elongating generative tillers only occurs after the vernalization
requirement has been fulfilled. The vernalization requirement is
simulated in a simplistic way using a threshold temperature. As soon as
the temperature falls below the threshold value, the vernalization
requirement is considered fulfilled and vegetative tillers start moving
to the non-elongating generative tiller category.

The sink strength associated with the stem growth of elongating tillers
decreases linearly with their size, and is also sensitive to drought.
The sink strength associated with the growth of leaves is calculated as
potential leaf area growth divided by specific leaf area (SLA). The SLA
of new leaf growth decreases linearly with reserve content. Potential
growth rate of leaf area is drought-sensitive and proportional to the
product of tiller density, the number of elongating leaves per tiller, a
constant leaf width and a temperature-dependent leaf elongation rate.
All four factors in that product differ between elongating and
non-elongating tillers, so the calculation is done separately for the
two categories and then summed. Leaf elongation rates increase linearly
with temperature, based on relationships determined by Peacock (1976)
and observations in Saerheim.

*** 4.11 Senescence

The senescence rate of leaves and non-elongating tillers increases with
LAI. Leaves, but not tillers, also die faster at higher soil surface
temperatures. Two other drivers of foliage death, frost and anaerobic
conditions, are discussed in following sections. The model does not
simulate senescence of elongating tillers or roots. Stubble does die,
but at a constant relative rate.

*** 4.12 Hardening and the impact of frost

Sensitivity to frost is measured by the state variable LT50, the "Lethal
Temperature 50%", which is the soil surface temperature that would kill
half the leaves and non-elongating tillers in one day. Lower
temperatures induce the same death rate, higher temperatures are less
damaging. The process whereby plants reduce LT50, i.e. increase their
level of frost tolerance, is called hardening. Hardening capacity
decreases over winter and is zero during spring and early summer.
Dehardening, i.e. increasing LT50, is always possible. Hardening
proceeds fastest when LT50 is high and temperatures low, and the
opposite applies to dehardening. The hardening process, which is
energy-demanding, slows down when reserve content is low.

*** 4.13 The impact of anaerobic conditions

When there is a surface ice layer (state variable WAPS > 0), anaerobic
conditions are assumed present. The number of consecutive anaerobic days
is monitored as state variable TANAER. Sensitivity to anaerobic
conditions follows a logistic function of TANAER in which the LD50, i.e
the lethal duration of anaerobic conditions that kills 50% of leaves and
non-elongating tillers, is assumed to be linearly related to LT50 based
on data for timothy cultivars Grindstad and Engmo. The logistic function
was derived as minus the normalized derivative of the curve for the
fraction surviving plants: Relative death rate = -(d fSurv/ dt) / fSurv.
Given that the survival curve is well described as 1 / (1 +
exp[r(t-LD50)]), the relative death rate is found to be: r / (1 +
exp[-r(t-LD50)]). For the parameter r, a value of 0.2 leads to an
observed width of the survival curve.

*** 4.14 The impact of harvesting

Most plant processes are interrupted during days when a harvest takes
place. The cutting removes all elongating tillers, but no non-elongating
tillers. Part of the biomass in elongating tillers becomes stubble. All
leaf area (and corresponding leaf mass) above a threshold is removed by
the cutting, as are most of the reserves.

** 5 Installing FORTRAN, R and RStudio

FORTRAN, R and RStudio are freely available from the web.

*** 5.1 Install gfortran

-  Go to: [[http://gcc.gnu.org/wiki/GFortranBinaries]] and scroll down
   to the paragraph called 'MinGW build ("native Windows" build)'. Then
   click in that paragraph on the link for downloading the latest
   'installer (dated 2014-06-29 at the time of writing)' and choose
   'Run'.

*** 5.2 Install R

-  Go to: [[http://cran.r-project.org]] and follow the instructions for
   downloading and installing R.

*** 5.3 Install RStudio

-  Go to: [[http://www.rstudio.org/download/desktop]] and click on the
   link to the version of RStudio 'Recommended For Your System'. Run the
   installer.

** 6 Installing the model files

All that needs to be done for model installation is unzipping the files,
but it is important to check that the files are put in the correct
place. So Verify that the unzipping program has produced the correct
directory structure. The top-level directory, which can have any name,
should contain three subdirectories, called 'BC', 'input' and 'model'.
The files that you should find in the four directories are listed above,
in chapter 'General overview of the model', section 'Technical details',
paragraph 'Directories and files'.

** 7 Compiling the model

This is not often needed. The zip-file already includes the result of
model compilation, i.e. the file 'BASGRA.DLL'. But whenever you change
one of the FORTRAN files (with extension '.f90'), the model needs to be
recompiled so that an updated version of BASGRA.DLL is produced.

-  The model can be recompiled simply by double-clicking on the file
   'compile\_BASGRA\_gfortran.bat'.

-  The most common reasons for changing FORTRAN files are when you want
   to see different output variables than the model delivers by default,
   or when you want to change the structure of the model.

-  Another reason for recompilation is when you want to change the type
   of weather file that BASGRA works with. That is discussed in the next
   chapter.

*** 7.1 Removing the previous DLL

If you started an RStudio-session with BASGRA, and during that session
recompiled the model outside RStudio, you may need to 'unload' the
original DLL to prevent R from continuing to work with it. Use the
following statement for this:

-  dyn.unload('BASGRA.DLL')

** 8 Initialising the model

Before we run the model, we need to define the simulation period, the
characteristics of the environment including the management, parameter
values of the grass cultivar etc. This is organised using
initialisation-files, in two steps.

*** 8.1 Step 1: General initialisation

There is one initialisation file called 'initialise\_BASGRA\_general.R'
which is used in every run of the model.

**** 8.1.1 'outputNames' and 'outputUnits'

The general initialisation file contains lists of all the model's output
variables with their units, called “outputNames” and “outputUnits”.
These lists are used for plotting and in Bayesian calibration (to match
measured to simulated variables).

**** 8.1.2 'plotOutputs'

The general initialisation file also includes the definition of a
plotting function, 'plotOutputs', that can be used in RStudio to make
plots of selected output variables.

*** 8.2 Step 2: Site-specific initialisation

Information on the specific site for which the model is run, is
organised in site-specific initialisation files. These files:

-  call the general initialisation file,

-  define the start year and day of the simulation period, and its
   length,

-  read the appropriate weather data from file,

-  set the cutting dates of the sward,

-  set the parameter values of the model.

**** 8.2.1 Weather files

Weather data should be provided in the form of ASCII files. Two types of
weather file can be handled by the model: (1) files following the
'Bioforsk' template, (2) files generated by the LARS weather generator.
The main difference is that the Bioforsk files include all weather
variables required to calculate potential evapotranspiration rate (PET)
using the Penman equation, whereas the weather generator files already
include PET and do not include wind speed and humidity.

-  Compilation of BASGRA for different weather files\\
   To work with either type of weather file, BASGRA needs to be compiled
   differently. To produce a 'BASGRA.DLL' that works with
   Bioforsk-files, execute 'compile\_BASGRA\_gfortran.bat'. For weather
   generator files, choose 'compile\_BASGRA\_gfortran\_weathergen.bat'.
   The two compilation files only differ in that the latter one includes
   the '-Dweathergen' switch, which makes the compiler select different
   parts of the code in files 'BASGRA.f90', 'environment.f90' and
   'read\_weather.f90'. The two different types of DLL are in fact
   included in the zip-file, with filenames 'BASGRA\_Bioforsk.DLL' and
   'BASGRA\_weathergen.DLL'. So instead of recompiling when you change
   the weather file type, you can also rename the appropriate DLL-file
   to 'BASGRA.DLL', but that would of course ignore any changes you made
   in any of the FORTRAN-files.

-  Weather files following the 'Bioforsk' template\\
   The following are the first two lines from a typical Bioforsk-type
   weather file:

| ST(number) YR(year) doy(day) T(degC) TMMXI(degC) TMMNI(degC) RH(%) RAINI(mmd-1) WNI(ms-1) GR(MJm-2d-1)   |
|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 42 2000 1 5.9 6.9 4.7 100.0 15.6 2.5 1.2                                                                 |

-  Bioforsk weather files contain a range of weather variables including
   three for temperature. However, the values for daily maximum and
   minimum temperature are not used in any of the model calculations, so
   only the values provided for daily average temperature matter. Also
   not used anywhere is the value in the first column, which specifies
   the weather station from which the data originate.

-  Weather files generated by the LARS weather generator\\
   The following are the first two lines from a typical file generated
   by the LARS weather generator:

| station year DOY TMIN °C TMAX °C PREC (mm) Global rad (MJ m-2) Pot evapotranspiration (mm)   |
|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 46 1 1 -2.4 2.3 8.5 0.25 0                                                                   |

-  The first column contains the weather station number which plays no
   role in model calculations. There are two temperature variables, for
   daily minimum and maximum temperature, but the model only uses the
   average of those two in the calculation of temperature effects. So it
   does not matter whether the true values of minimum and maximum
   temperature are specified, or whether the daily average is repeated
   in both columns.

-  Weather data for multiple years\\
   Weather data can span multiple years. The doy ('day of the year') for
   the first year can run to 365 or 366. After that, doy should be
   starting again from 1 when the data for the next year begin.

-  Weather data called by the included site-specific initialisation
   files

   -  The files *initialise\_BASGRA\_Holt\_0506\_winter\_Gri.R* and
      *initialise\_BASGRA\_Saerheim\_00\_early\_Gri.R* call Bioforsk
      weather files: 'weather\_00\_Saerheim\_format\_bioforsk.txt' and
      'weather\_0506\_Holt\_format\_bioforsk.txt', both in subdirectory
      'input'.

   -  The file
      *initialise\_BASGRA\_Saerheim\_1\_early\_Gri\_weathergen.R* calls
      a weather generator file: 'AP\_BCM\_AB1\_2050\_year1.txt'.

**** 8.2.2 Cutting dates

Cutting dates are defined in each site-specific initialisation file, in
lines such as:

-  days\_harvest[1,] <- c( 2000, 150 )

-  days\_harvest[2,] <- c( 2000, 216 )

The numbers in that line refer to the year and doy ('day of the year')
at which harvesting takes place.

**** 8.2.3 Parameter values

BASGRA has 81 parameters for which the values are set in a txt-file,
'parameters.txt' located in subdirectory 'parameters'. This txt-file in
fact contains 10 different columns of parameter values, because
parameterisation differs between sites. In particular the initial values
of plant state variables and the parameters that define the soil water
retention curve differ between sites. Values of non site-specific
parameters in file 'parameters.txt', i.e. parameters whose values are
the same in every column, are set to the Maximum a Posteriori (MAP)
values from multi-site calibration carried out in August 2012. For any
run, the column in 'parameters.txt' from which parameter values are to
be taken is specified in the site-specific initialisation file. So if
you want to run the model with a new parameter vector, add the new
parameter vector as a new column in 'parameters.txt' and modify the
initialisation file to look at that column.

** 9 Running the model

The model is run from script-files written in R.

*** 9.1 Running the model with pre-defined settings

You can run the model using any of the included files called
'run\_BASGRA\_....R':

1. Double-click on the file.

2. This should open the file in RStudio. If not, it is advisable to
   associate files with extension '.R' with Rstudio.

3. Make sure that RStudio is not still looking at an older version of
   the file (that can happen if you opened the file before).

4. In RStudio, click on 'Source' - at the top right in the source editor
   panel - to run the whole script-file in one go. That should produce
   results that can be examined in the other RStudio-panels.

*** 9.2 Running with different settings of your own choosing

This can be done in various ways, but the most tidy is as follows:

1. Make a new site-specific initialisation file
   (initialise\_BASGRA\_...R') by editing one of the examples in the
   'initialisation' directory and saving it under a different name.

   -  If your new settings include the use of new weather data, you also
      have to place a new weather file in subdirectory 'weather'. Make
      sure that the new weather file folows the same format as the
      already available weather files.

2. Make a new 'run\_BASGRA\_...R' file, by copying and editing an
   existing run-file. In line 2 of your new file 'run\_BASGRA\_....R',
   call the new initialisation file that you made.

3. Continue as above for pre-defined runs.

*** 9.3 Running a batch job, i.e. a series of runs

You can do this by writing an R-file in which every run is specified.
Examples of such batch files are provided:
'run\_batch\_BASGRA\_EXAMPLES.R' and
'run\_batch\_BASGRA\_EXAMPLES\_weathergen.R'.

** 10 Selecting and examining model outputs

Output variables are specified in two files which must be kept mutually
consistent: 'BASGRA.f90' and the general initialisation file
'initialise\_BASGRA\_general.R'. The first is located in directory
'model', the second in the master directory. The first is the
FORTRAN-file where the variables are actually quantified, the second is
where we give information on variable names and units that RStudio can
use for post-processing of the results. In the included model files, 39
output variables are specified, which include the 23 state variables of
the model.

*** 10.1 Choosing different output variables

It is possible to change the choice of output variables. For example, to
add a new variable to the outputs, you need to:

-  increase the value of NOUT in 'initialise\_BASGRA\_general.R' by one.

-  add the name of the new variable to the outputNameList (also in
   "initialise\_BASGRA\_general.R")

-  ensure that the variable is visible to 'BASGRA.f90'

   -  Most but not all model variables are visible to BASGRA.f90. The
      ones that are, are either declared at the top of 'BASGRA.f90'
      itself, like all the model's state and rate variables, or at the
      top of modules (other .f90 files) for which there is a "use"
      statement in 'BASGRA.f90'. So the exceptions are variables that
      are only locally defined inside subroutines. If you want to see
      one of those variables, move its declaration from inside the
      subroutine where it is defined to the top of its module, before
      the "contains"-statement. That will make the variable accessible
      anywhere in the module and in 'BASGRA.f90' because of the
      "use"-statement there. If the variable was exported from the
      subroutine where it was defined through the subroutine header,
      remove it there. Then also check if the variable was present in
      the header and declaration line of other subroutines in the
      module, and if so remove them there too.

-  add a line to BASGRA.f90 stating "y(day,40)=[new variable]" (assuming
   the previous number of output variables was 39)

*** 10.2 Examining output

Outputs can be examined in various ways.

**** 10.2.1 Matrix variable 'output'

After every run, a large matrix called 'output' is produced, which can
be inspected and analysed in RStudio. The matrix has the same number of
rows as there are days in the simulation period, and the same number of
columns at there are output variables. In BASGRA terms, the matrix
dimensions are NDAYS x NOUT. The matrix does not show the names and
units of the output variables, but these can be retrieved by inspecting
the R-variable 'outputNames'.

**** 10.2.2 Graphs

The function 'plotOutputs' is available (through its definition in the
general initialisation file) for easy plotting of results. The function
takes three arguments: number of plot rows, number of plot columns, and
a list of names of the selected output variables. An example of a call
to that function is:

-  plotOutputs( 3, 2, c("CLV","TILTOT","LAI","RDRT","PHEN") )

** 11 Changing model structure

If you want to make structural changes to BASGRA, you will be editing
one or more of the FORTRAN files. So after that is done, you need to
recompile the model. If you want to do that but somehow keep the option
of using the old model version, then you can use the '#ifdef' construct
when changing the model. This involves not replacing original code but
adding branches to new code such that, at the compilation stage, it is
still possible to choose between the old and new code:

-  Write code as: #ifdef "label1" <new code> #else <old code> #endif

-  To activate the new labelled code, use the D-option, i.e. add the
   following term to the compile file:

   -  ... -Dlabel1

-  Note that an example of this method is already part of the model:
   BASGRA can be compiled with or without the "Dweathergen" option
   depending on the type of weather file you intend to use (see chapter
   "Initialising the model").

** 12 Bayesian calibration (BC)

The model comes with R-files for calibrating the model's parameters
using data from measurements. The files implement Bayesian calibration
(BC) by means of Markov Chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) simulation using the
Metropolis algorithm. The calibration involves six steps:

1. Selecting the parameters that will be calibrated

2. Defining the prior probability distribution for those parameters

3. Selecting the data that the parameters will be calibrated against

4. Defining the likelihood function associated with those data

5. Running the MCMC

6. Analysing the outcome of the MCMC

Each of these steps will be explained in more detail in the following
sections. In practice, we shall not do all steps one by one, but prepare
everything before starting the BC, and run everything from one BC script
file. Three examples of such BC script files are given in the master
directory, all named 'BC\_BASGRA\_[].R'.

*** 12.1 STEP 1: Selecting parameters for calibration

Generally, it is best to include in the BC all parameters about which we
are uncertain. The list of selected parameters should be listed in a
txt-file that is placed in directory ‘BC'. Two examples of such files
are already in that directory.

*** 12.2 STEP 2: Defining the prior probability distribution

The file 'parameters\_BC.txt' should contain, besides the list of
parameter names in the first column, three columns with numbers. These
numbers represent the minimum, mode and maximum of the marginal prior
distribution for each parameter, which is assumed to be a beta
distribution. The prior distribution represents your uncertainty about
the values of the parameters, so to some degree it is subjective, but
the distributions must obey some constraints.

**** 12.2.1 Parameter constraints

Given the structure of BASGRA and the meaning of its parameters, there
are various parameter constraints. These need to be taken into account
when creating the file 'parameters\_BC.txt'. Important constraints are:

-  DLMXGE > DAYLB

-  TOPTGE > TBASE

-  FSMAX has a theoretical upper limit < 1.

-  HAGERE <= 1

-  SHAPE <= 1

-  SLAMAX > SLAMIN

-  TRANCO may have physical limits [a,b] where a>0 and b<infinity.

-  YG < 1 because it is the Growth Yield, the fraction of C allocated to
   growth that actually ends up in new biomass, with the remainder being
   lost to growth respiration.

*** 12.3 STEP 3: Selecting calibration data

During calibration, data from measurements are compared with outputs
from BASGRA. So the only kinds of measurement that can act as
calibration data are those that correspond to a model output variable.
The data must be specified in txt-files, where each row represents one
measurement, with the name of the corresponding BASGRA output variable
in the first column. Examples of calibration data files are provided:
'data\_calibration\_Holt\_0506\_winter\_Gri.txt' and
'data\_calibration\_Saerheim\_00\_early\_Gri.txt'. The values in columns
two and three of these files represent the day of measurement and the
measurement value itself.

*** 12.4 STEP 4: Defining the likelihood function

The likelihood function quantifies the probability of each measurement
as a function of the parameter values. If the parameter values lead to
model output that differs strongly from measurement, then the likelihood
is low, and vice versa. The exact value of the likelihood for each
measurement depends on our uncertainty with respect to measurement
error. If the data have very low uncertainty, then even a small
difference between model and measurement has a low likelihood, and so
on. The measurement uncertainties are specified in BC initialisation
files, of which three examples are given in subdirectory 'BC', all named
'BC\_BASGRA\_MCMC\_init\_[]\_Gri.R'. In these files, measurement
uncertainties are specified as follows:

-  The default value of the coefficient of variation (CV) for
   calibration data is set at 0.5;

-  For dry matter yield (DM), CV = 0.05;

-  For LAI, CV = 0.1;

-  For total tiller density (TILTOT), CV = 0.2;

-  For LT50, not a relative uncertainty such as the CV is given but an
   absolute one of 5 degrees C.

The above uncertainties are all used in a 'Sivia'-distribution
likelihood function, which is similar to the Gaussian but has fatter
tails and thus is more robust against outliers.

-  For the fraction of tillers that is elongating (FRTILG), uncertainty
   is represented by a beta-distribution on [0.3,0.9] with the mode at
   the measured value. A beta- rather than Sivia-distribution was chosen
   for this variable to have hard bounds on acceptable model output,
   knowing that FRTILG just before the first cut should definitely be
   higher than 0.3 or 0.4, and by definition less or equal to 1.

After quantifying the uncertainty and parameter likelihood for each
individual measurement, all these likelihoods are multiplied (or rather,
the log-likelihoods are summed) to arrive at the overall
(log-)likelihood of the parameter vector. Any of the above settings can
of course be changed when datasets are used for which the measurement
uncertainties are different.

*** 12.5 STEP 5: Running the MCMC

Before continuing, we need to recompile if a FORTRAN file was altered in
STEP 1 ('set\_params\_BC.f90'). Then we need to set the length of the
parameter vector chain to be generated in the MCMC, which is also done
in the BC initialisation file. After that, we start the chain by running
the script 'BC\_BASGRA\_MCMC.R'.

*** 12.6 STEP 6: Analysing the outcome of the MCMC

Assuming you have done your BC with included standard files for
initialising and carrying out a BC, much information will automatically
be available at the end of it. Many variables can be seen in RStudio, in
the panel called 'Workspace', and they can be analysed by entering
R-commands in the panel called 'Console'. But there are also
automatically files produced, with BC results, in the working directory.

-  'BC\_parameters\_traceplots\_[].pdf'.

   -  This shows trace plots for each parameter in the calibration.

-  'BC\_parameters\_priorbeta\_histograms\_[].pdf'.

   -  This shows prior and posterior marginal distributions for each
      parameter in the calibration.

-  'BC\_outputs\_data\_[].pdf'

   -  These show simulation outputs with uncertainties compared with
      data. Red solid line: model output for the mode of the prior
      distribution. Black solid and dotted lines: model output for the
      posterior mode and uncertainty (5% and 95% quantiles). Blue solid
      line: model output for the maximum likelihood parameter vector.

-  'BASGRA\_parModes\_[].txt'.

   -  This is a text-file, best opened in EXCEL, with parameter vectors,
      including the modes from prior and posterior plus the maximum
      likelihood vector and the posterior mean. There is also
      information on the posterior marginal variances for each
      parameter. These results are given for each of the sites included
      in the calibration.

   -  The parameter vectors are extended to the full complement of
      (normally 76 or so) parameters that you can find in
      'parameters.txt'. In the BC there were fewer parameters, so the
      default values of the uncalibrated parameters are added.

*** 12.7 On single-site BC vs. multi-site BC

We distinguish two kinds of calibration: Single-site and Multi-site. In
Single-site BC, all data are from one set of growing conditions (single
season, single location), so the model only needs to be run once for
every examined parameter vector. In Multi-site BC, we use data from more
than one site (or more growing seasons), so that at every iteration in
the MCMC the model needs to be run multiple times. To see an example of
that, inspect, for example, the BC script file 'BC\_BASGRA\_ Gri.R'.

*** 12.8 On running the BC with different settings and/or different data

There are many possibilities here, depending on what you want to change.
Some examples:

-  1. To change the chain length of the MCMC, or the proposal
   distribution:

   -  Modify 'BC/BC\_BASGRA\_MCMC\_init[\_MULTISITE]\_....R'. Chain
      length is called 'nChain' and the covariance matrix of the
      proposal distribution is called 'vcovProp'.

-  2. To modify the list of parameters included in the calibration:

   -  Change 'BC/parameters\_BC.txt'.

   -  If you deleted parameters from 'BC/parameters\_BC.txt', no further
      changes are needed and you can start the BC in the usual way.

   -  If you have added parameters to the existing 'parameters\_BC.txt'
      file: check that your new calibration parameters are also included
      in 'input/parameters\_default.txt'. That is required because the
      calibration parameters must be a subset of the parameters that the
      model reads in externally by means of that default parameter file.

   -  If your new calibration parameters are not yet in
      'input/parameters\_default.txt', add them there, and add them also
      to 'model/set\_params.f90'. Furthermore, inspect
      'model/parameters\_plant.f90' and 'model/parameters\_site.f90' to
      see if those files also need some modification (which may be the
      case if your new calibration parameters were originally given
      fixed values in those files.

-  3. To use a different dataset from the same site:

   -  Change the existing datafile(s), called
      'BC/data\_calibration\_...txt', or add a new one.

   -  If a new datafile is created, insert its name in
      'BC/BC\_BASGRA\_MCMC\_init[\_MULTISITE].R' instead of the default
      datafile name.

-  4. To add extra sites to a Multi-site BC:

   -  Make new model initialisation files, called
      'initialise\_BASGRA\_...txt', to the top-level directory.

   -  Make new data files 'BC/data\_calibration\_...txt'.

   -  Modify the calibration initialisation file
      'BC/BC\_BASGRA\_MCMC\_init\_MULTISITE\_...R', by adding the new
      filenames to the statements defining 'sitesettings\_filenames' and
      'sitedata\_filenames'.

** 13 Publications on BASGRA and related models

-  Rodríguez, D., Van Oijen, M. & Schapendonk, A.H.C.M. (1999).
   LINGRA\_CC: A sink-source model to simulate the impact of climate
   change and management on grassland productivity. New Phytologist 144:
   359-368.

-  Höglind, M., Schapendonk, A.H.C.M. & Van Oijen, M. (2001). Timothy
   growth in Scandinavia: a review of quantitative information on
   underlying processes and an analysis by means of simulation
   modelling. New Phytologist 151: 355-367.

-  Van Oijen, M., Höglind, M., Hanslin, H.M. & Caldwell, N. (2005).
   Process-based modelling of timothy regrowth. Agronomy Journal 97:
   1295-1303.

-  Thorsen, S.M., Roer, A.-G. & Van Oijen, M. (2010). Modelling the
   dynamics of snow cover, soil frost and surface ice in Norwegian
   grasslands. Polar Research 29: 110-126.

-  Thorsen, S.M. & Höglind, M. (2010). Modelling cold hardening and
   dehardening in timothy. Sensitivity analysis and Bayesian model
   comparison. Agricultural and Forest Meteorology 150: 1529-1542.

** 14 References cited

-  Bonesmo, H. 1999. Spring growth and regrowth rates of timothy and
   meadow fescue. Agricultural University of Norway. Doctor scientarium
   theses 1999:8. ISSN 0802-3220.

-  Peacock J.M. 1976. Temperature and leaf growth in four grass species.
   Journal of Applied Ecology 13: 225--232.

** 15 APPENDIX I: FORTRAN files and subroutines

The following table shows for each BASGRA FORTRAN file which subroutines
it contains, and which (if any) rate variables are calculated in those
subroutines.

| *File*                  | *Main subroutines*   | *Nested subroutines*      | *Calculated rate variables*                       |
|-------------------------+----------------------+---------------------------+---------------------------------------------------|
| BASGRA.f90              |                      |                           |                                                   |
| environment.f90         |                      |                           |                                                   |
|                         | set\_weather\_day    |                           |                                                   |
|                         | Microclimate         |                           |                                                   |
|                         |                      | RainSnowSurfacePool       |                                                   |
|                         |                      | precForm                  | Psnow                                             |
|                         |                      | WaterSnow                 |                                                   |
|                         |                      | SnowMeltWmaxStore         | SnowMelt                                          |
|                         |                      | WETSTORdynamics           | reFreeze                                          |
|                         |                      | LiquidWaterDistribution   | Wremain                                           |
|                         |                      | SnowDensity               |                                                   |
|                         |                      | SnowDepthDecrease         | PackMelt                                          |
|                         |                      | INFILrunOn                | INFIL                                             |
|                         |                      | SurfacePool               | FREEZEPL,poolDrain,poolInfil,THAWPS               |
|                         | DDAYL                |                           |                                                   |
|                         | PEVAPINPUT           |                           |                                                   |
|                         | PENMAN               |                           |                                                   |
| parameters\_plant.f90   |                      |                           |                                                   |
| parameters\_site.f90    |                      |                           |                                                   |
| plant.f90               |                      |                           |                                                   |
|                         | Harvest              |                           | GSTUB,HARVLA,HARVLV,HARVPH,HARVRE,HARVST,HARVTG   |
|                         | Biomass              |                           |                                                   |
|                         | Phenology            |                           | DPHEN,GPHEN                                       |
|                         | Foliage1             |                           |                                                   |
|                         | LUECO2TM             |                           |                                                   |
|                         | HardeningSink        |                           |                                                   |
|                         | Growth               |                           | RESMOB                                            |
|                         |                      | Allocation                | GLV,GRES,GRT,GST                                  |
|                         | PlantRespiration     |                           |                                                   |
|                         | Senescence           |                           |                                                   |
|                         |                      | AnaerobicDamage           | DLV,DRT,DSTUB,dTANAER,DTILV                       |
|                         |                      | Hardening                 | DeHardRate,HardRate                               |
|                         | Foliage2             |                           | GLAI                                              |
| resources.f90           |                      |                           |                                                   |
|                         | Light                |                           |                                                   |
|                         | EVAPTRTRF            |                           | EVAP,TRAN                                         |
|                         | ROOTDG               |                           | EXPLOR,RROOTD                                     |
| set\_params.f90         |                      |                           |                                                   |
| soil.f90                |                      |                           |                                                   |
|                         | SoilWaterContent     |                           |                                                   |
|                         | Physics              |                           |                                                   |
|                         |                      | FrozenSoil                | Frate                                             |
|                         | FRDRUNIR             |                           | DRAIN,FREEZEL,IRRIG,RUNOFF,THAWS                  |
|                         | O2status             |                           |                                                   |
|                         | O2fluxes             |                           | O2IN,O2OUT                                        |

** 16 APPENDIX II: Variables

*** 16.1 Introductory comments

-  Areas (m2) are ground area unless otherwise indicated.

-  Soil water amounts are given as "mm" water, which is equivalent to
   "kg water m-2 ground area".

**** 16.1.1 Types of variables

1. State variables

2. Non-state variables

   -  Input variable: Variables whose values are not calculated by the
      model but defined in the initialization file or imported from an
      external data file.

   -  Intermediate variables: Variables that express intermediate
      results in the calculation of rate or output variables.

   -  Output variables: Variables whose calculation can be deleted
      without affecting any of the other model results.

      -  Output variables whose identifier is given in quotation marks
         ("") do not have explicit names in BASGRA.f90, but names are
         given to them in the plotting routines.

   -  Rate variables: Variables that directly change state variables.
      They are part of the state update equation and their unit includes
      "d-1".

*** 16.2 State variables (BASGRA.f90)

| *State variable*   | *Unit*        | *Meaning*                                         |
|--------------------+---------------+---------------------------------------------------|
| CLV                | gC m-2        | Weight of leaves                                  |
| CLVD               | gC m-2        | Weight of leaves died since start simulation      |
| CRES               | gC m-2        | Weight of reserves                                |
| CRT                | gC m-2        | Weight of roots                                   |
| CST                | gC m-2        | Weight of stems                                   |
| CSTUB              | gC m-2        | Weight of stubble                                 |
| DRYSTOR            | mm            | Snow amount as SWE (Soil Water Equivalent)        |
| Fdepth             | m             | Soil frost layer depth                            |
| LAI                | m2 leaf m-2   | Leaf area index                                   |
| LT50               | °C            | Temperature that kills half the plants in a day   |
| O2                 | mol m-2       | Soil oxygen content                               |
| PHEN               | -             | Phenological stage                                |
| ROOTD              | m             | Rooting depth                                     |
| Sdepth             | m             | Snow depth                                        |
| TANAER             | d             | Time since start anaerobic conditions             |
| TILG1              | m-2           | Non-elongating generative tiller density          |
| TILG2              | m-2           | Elongating generative tiller density              |
| TILV               | m-2           | Non-elongating tiller density                     |
| WAL                | mm            | Soil water amount: liquid                         |
| WAPL               | mm            | Pool water amount: liquid                         |
| WAPS               | mm            | Pool water amount: solid (=ice)                   |
| WAS                | mm            | Soil water amount: solid (=ice)                   |
| WETSTOR            | mm            | Liquid water in snow                              |

*** 

*** 

*** 

*** \\
16.3 Non-state variables (BASGRA.f90)

| *Variable*   | *Unit*                | *Meaning*                                                           | *Type*         |
|--------------+-----------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------|
| "DM"         | g m-2                 | Aboveground DM                                                      | Output         |
| "FRTILG"     | -                     | Elongating tiller fraction                                          | Output         |
| "RES"        | g g-1                 | Reserves per g aboveground DM                                       | Output         |
| "SLA"        | m2 g-1                | Leaf area per g of vegetative tillers                               | Output         |
| "TILTOT"     | m-2                   | Total tiller density                                                | Output         |
| "Time"       | y                     | Decimal year (approximation)                                        | Output         |
| DAVTMP       | °C                    | Daily average temperature                                           | Intermediate   |
| day          | d                     | Day index (running from 1 to NDAYS)                                 | Intermediate   |
| DAYL         | d d-1                 | Day length                                                          | Intermediate   |
| DeHardRate   | °C d-1                | Dehardening rate (LT50 becoming less negative)                      | Rate           |
| DLAI         | m2 leaf m-2 d-1       | Death rate of leaf area                                             | Rate           |
| DLV          | gC m-2 d-1            | Death rate of leaf mass                                             | Rate           |
| doy          | d                     | Day of year (1 = 1 Jan)                                             | Intermediate   |
| DPHEN        | d-1                   | Rate of decrease of phenological stage                              | Rate           |
| DRAIN        | mm d-1                | Drainage rate below the root zone                                   | Rate           |
| DRT          | gC m-2 d-1            | Death rate of roots                                                 | Rate           |
| DSTUB        | gC m-2 d-1            | Death rate of stubble                                               | Rate           |
| dTANAER      | d d-1                 | Change in days since start anaerobic conditions                     | Rate           |
| DTILV        | tillers m-2 d-1       | Death rate of non/elongating tillers                                | Rate           |
| DTR          | MJ GR m-2 d-1         | Daily global radiation                                              | Intermediate   |
| EVAP         | mm d-1                | Evaporation of water from soil surface                              | Rate           |
| EXPLOR       | mm d-1                | Increased access to water by root depth growth                      | Rate           |
| FO2          | mol O2 mol-1 gas      | Soil oxygen as a fraction of total gas                              | Intermediate   |
| Frate        | m d-1                 | Rate of increase of frost layer depth                               | Rate           |
| FREEZEL      | mm d-1                | Freezing of soil water                                              | Rate           |
| FREEZEPL     | mm d-1                | Freezing of pool water                                              | Rate           |
| GLAI         | m2 leaf m-2 d-1       | Growth of leaf area                                                 | Rate           |
| GLV          | gC m-2 d-1            | Growth of leaf mass                                                 | Rate           |
| GPHEN        | d-1                   | Rate of phenological development                                    | Rate           |
| GRES         | gC m-2 d-1            | Gross growth rate of reserve pool, uncorrected for remobilisation   | Rate           |
| GRT          | gC m-2 d-1            | Growth of roots                                                     | Rate           |
| GST          | gC m-2 d-1            | Growth of stems                                                     | Rate           |
| GSTUB        | gC m-2 d-1            | Growth of stubble due to harvest of elongating tillers              | Rate           |
| HardRate     | °C d-1                | Hardening (LT50 becoming more negative)                             | Rate           |
| HARVLA       | m2 leaf m-2 d-1       | Harvested leaf area                                                 | Rate           |
| HARVLV       | gC m-2 d-1            | Harvested leaf mass                                                 | Rate           |
| HARVPH       | d-1                   | Resetting of phenological stage by harvesting                       | Rate           |
| HARVRE       | gC m-2 d-1            | Harvested reserves                                                  | Rate           |
| HARVST       | gC m-2 d-1            | Harvested stem mass                                                 | Rate           |
| HARVTG       | tillers m-2 d-1       | Harvested elongating tillers (apex removed by harvesting)           | Rate           |
| INFIL        | mm d-1                | Water flow into soil from precipitation and snow melt               | Rate           |
| IRRIG        | mm d-1                | Irrigation rate                                                     | Rate           |
| LERG         | m d-1                 | Leaf elongation rate per leaf for generative tillers                | Intermediate   |
| NELLVG       | tiller-1              | Number of growing leaves per elongating tiller                      | Intermediate   |
| O2IN         | mol m-2 d-1           | Influx of oxygen into the soil                                      | Rate           |
| O2OUT        | mol m-2 d-1           | Efflux of oxygen from the soil                                      | Rate           |
| PackMelt     | m d-1                 | Loss of snow height by packing and by melting                       | Rate           |
| PAR          | mol PAR m-2 d-1       | Daily photosynthetically active radiation                           | Intermediate   |
| PARAV        | mumol PAR m-2 s-1     | Average PAR during the photoperiod                                  | Intermediate   |
| PARINT       | mol PAR m-2 d-1       | PAR interception                                                    | Intermediate   |
| PERMGAS      | d-1                   | Permeability of soil surface to gas exchange                        | Intermediate   |
| PEVAP        | mm d-1                | Potential rate of evaporation from the soil                         | Intermediate   |
| poolDrain    | mm d-1                | Water flow from pool to soil                                        | Rate           |
| poolInfil    | mm d-1                | Water flow to pool from other sources than ice thawing              | Rate           |
| Psnow        | mm d-1                | Snow fall                                                           | Rate           |
| PTRAN        | mm d-1                | Potential transpiration rate                                        | Intermediate   |
| reFreeze     | mm d-1                | Freezing of liquid water stored in snow                             | Rate           |
| RESMOB       | gC m-2 d-1            | Mobilisation of reserves                                            | Rate           |
| RESPHARD     | gC m-2 d-1            | Plant hardening respiration                                         | Intermediate   |
| RGRTV        | d-1                   | Relative rate of tillering                                          | Intermediate   |
| RGRTVG       | d-1                   | Relative rate of tillers becoming elongating tillers                | Intermediate   |
| RLEAF        | leaves tiller-1 d-1   | Leaf appearance rate per tiller                                     | Intermediate   |
| RplantAer    | gC m-2 d-1            | Aerobic plant respiration                                           | Intermediate   |
| RROOTD       | m d-1                 | Rate of increase in rooting depth                                   | Rate           |
| RUNOFF       | mm d-1                | Loss of water by runoff                                             | Rate           |
| SnowMelt     | mm d-1                | Snow melting                                                        | Rate           |
| THAWPS       | mm d-1                | Rate of surface ice thawing                                         | Rate           |
| THAWS        | mm d-1                | Water flow to soil pool from thawing of frozen soil                 | Rate           |
| TRAN         | mm d-1                | Transpiration                                                       | Rate           |
| TRANRF       | -                     | Transpiration realisation factor                                    | Intermediate   |
| Tsurf        | °C                    | Soil surface temperature                                            | Intermediate   |
| VERN         | -                     | Vernalization status                                                | Intermediate   |
| Wremain      | mm d-1                | Liquid water stored in snow that remains there                      | Rate           |
| y            | (various)             | Output variables matrix (NDAYS x NOUT)                              | Output         |

*** 16.4 Variables (readweather.f90)

| *Variable*   | *Unit*       | *Meaning*                      | *Type*         |
|--------------+--------------+--------------------------------+----------------|
| DOYI         | d            | Day of year                    | Input          |
| GR           | MJ m-2 d-1   | Global radiation               | Input          |
| PETI         | mm d-1       | Potential evapotranspiration   | Input          |
| PREC         | mm d-1       | Precipitation                  | Input          |
| RAINI        | mm d-1       | Precipitation                  | Intermediate   |
| RDDI         | kJ m-2 d-1   | Global radiation               | Intermediate   |
| RH           | %            | Relative humidity              | Input          |
| T            | °C           | Temperature                    | Input          |
| TMMNI        | °C           | Minimum temperature            | Input          |
| TMMXI        | °C           | Maximum temperature            | Input          |
| VPI          | kPa          | Vapour pressure                | Input          |
| WNI          | m s-1        | Wind speed                     | Input          |
| YEARI        | y            | Year                           | Input          |

*** 16.5 Variables (environment.f90)

| *Variable*      | *Unit*             | *Meaning*                                                       | *Type*         |
|-----------------+--------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------+----------------|
| BBRAD           | J m-2 d-1          | Black body radiation                                            | Intermediate   |
| DAVTMP          | °C                 | Daily average temperature                                       | Intermediate   |
| day             | d                  | Day index (running from 1 to NDAYS)                             | Intermediate   |
| DAYL            | d d-1              | Day length                                                      | Intermediate   |
| DEC             | radians            | Declination of the sun                                          | Intermediate   |
| DECC            | radians            | Declination of the sun, corrected for extreme day lengths       | Intermediate   |
| DENSITY         | kg m-3             | Density of snow                                                 | Intermediate   |
| doy             | d                  | Day of year (1 = 1 Jan)                                         | Intermediate   |
| DOYI            | d                  | Day of year (1 = 1 Jan)                                         | Input          |
| DRYSTOR         | mm                 | Snow amount as SWE (Soil Water Equivalent)                      | State          |
| DTR             | MJ m-2 d-1         | Daily global radiation                                          | Intermediate   |
| DTRJM2          | J GR m-2 d-1       | Daily global radiation                                          | Intermediate   |
| EVAP            | mm d-1             | Evaporation of water from soil surface                          | Intermediate   |
| Fdepth          | m                  | Soil frost layer depth                                          | State          |
| Frate           | m d-1              | Rate of increase of frost layer depth                           | Rate           |
| FREEZEPL        | mm d-1             | Freezing rate of pool water                                     | Rate           |
| INFIL           | mm d-1             | Water flow into soil from precipitation and snow melt           | Rate           |
| LAI             | m2 leaf m-2        | Leaf area index                                                 | Intermediate   |
| Melt            | mm °C-1 d-1        | Potential snow melt rate per degree above TmeltFreeze           | Intermediate   |
| NRADC           | J m-2 d-1          | Net radiation absorption by the canopy                          | Intermediate   |
| NRADS           | J m-2 d-1          | Net radiation absorption by the soil                            | Intermediate   |
| PackMelt        | m d-1              | Loss of snow height by packing and by melting                   | Rate           |
| PAR             | mol PAR m-2 d-1    | Daily photosynthetically active radiation                       | Intermediate   |
| PENMD           | J m-2 d-1          | Atmospheric drying power term of the Penman equation            | Intermediate   |
| PENMRC          | J m-2 d-1          | Radiation term of the Penman equation for canopy                | Intermediate   |
| PENMRS          | J m-2 d-1          | Radiation term of the Penman equation for soil                  | Intermediate   |
| PERMgas         | d-1                | Permeability of soil surface to gas exchange                    | Intermediate   |
| PET             | mm d-1             | Potential evapotranspiration                                    | Intermediate   |
| PETI            | mm d-1             | Potential evapotranspiration                                    | Input          |
| PEVAP           | mm d-1             | Potential evaporation rate                                      | Intermediate   |
| PINFIL          | mm d-1             | Wsupply - RNINTC                                                | Intermediate   |
| PIrate          | m d-1              | Potential rate of pool freezing (if negative, thawing)          | Intermediate   |
| poolDrain       | mm d-1             | Water flow from pool to soil                                    | Rate           |
| poolInfil       | mm d-1             | Water flow to pool from other sources than ice thawing          | Rate           |
| poolRUNOFF      | mm d-1             | Water runoff from exceedance of surface pool capacity           | Intermediate   |
| poolVolRemain   | mm d-1             | Unused capacity of surface pool                                 | Intermediate   |
| poolWavail      | mm d-1             | Liquid water potentially available for flow from pool to soil   | Intermediate   |
| Psnow           | mm d-1             | Snow fall                                                       | Rate           |
| PTRAN           | mm d-1             | Potential transpiration rate                                    | Intermediate   |
| Pwater          | mm d-1             | Rain                                                            | Intermediate   |
| RAIN            | mm d-1             | Precipitation                                                   | Intermediate   |
| RAINI           | mm d-1             | Precipitation                                                   | Intermediate   |
| RDD             | kJ m-2 d-1         | Global radiation                                                | Intermediate   |
| RDDI            | kJ m-2 d-1         | Global radiation                                                | Intermediate   |
| reFreeze        | mm d-1             | Freezing of liquid water stored in snow                         | Rate           |
| reFreezeMax     | mm d-1             | Maximum refreezing rate                                         | Intermediate   |
| RLWN            | J m-2 d-1          | Net outgoing long-wave radiation                                | Intermediate   |
| RNINTC          | mm d-1             | Interception of precipitation by the canopy                     | Intermediate   |
| runOn           | mm d-1             | Water in excess of what can infiltrate the soil                 | Intermediate   |
| Sdepth          | m                  | Snow depth                                                      | State          |
| SLOPE           | kPA °C-1           | Temperature derivative of SVP                                   | Intermediate   |
| SnowMelt        | mm d-1             | Snow melting                                                    | Rate           |
| StayWet         | mm d-1             | Liquid water in snow remaining liquid                           | Intermediate   |
| SVP             | kPa                | Saturation vapour pressure                                      | Intermediate   |
| SWE             | mm                 | Snow Water Equivalent (solid plius liquid)                      | Intermediate   |
| THAWPS          | mm d-1             | Rate of surface ice thawing                                     | Rate           |
| TMMN            | °C                 | Minimum temperature                                             | Intermediate   |
| TMMNI           | °C                 | Minimum temperature                                             | Input          |
| TMMX            | °C                 | Maximum temperature                                             | Intermediate   |
| TMMXI           | °C                 | Maximum temperature                                             | Input          |
| Tsurf           | °C                 | Soil surface temperature                                        | Intermediate   |
| VP              | kPa                | Vapour pressure                                                 | Intermediate   |
| VPI             | kPa                | Vapour pressure                                                 | Input          |
| WAPL            | mm                 | Pool water amount: liquid                                       | State          |
| WAPS            | mm                 | Pool water amount: solid (=ice)                                 | State          |
| Wavail          | mm d-1             | Liquid water from rain, snow melt and storage in snow           | Intermediate   |
| WDF             | kg m-2 d-1 kPa-1   | Wind factor in the Penman equation                              | Intermediate   |
| WETSTOR         | mm                 | Liquid water in snow                                            | State          |
| WmaxStore       | mm d-1             | Liquid water storage capacity of the snowpack                   | Intermediate   |
| WN              | m s-1              | Wind speed                                                      | Intermediate   |
| WNI             | m s-1              | Wind speed                                                      | Input          |
| Wremain         | mm d-1             | Liquid water staying in snow pack                               | Rate           |
| Wsupply         | mm d-1             | Liquid water not staying in snow pack                           | Intermediate   |
| YEARI           | y                  | Year                                                            | Input          |
| year            | y                  | Year                                                            | Intermediate   |

*** 16.6 Variables (soil.f90)

| *Variable*   | *Unit*             | *Meaning*                                               | *Type*         |
|--------------+--------------------+---------------------------------------------------------+----------------|
| alpha        |                    |                                                         | Intermediate   |
| DAVTMP       | °C                 | Daily average temperature                               | Intermediate   |
| DRAIN        | mm d-1             | Drainage rate below the root zone                       | Rate           |
| EVAP         | mm d-1             | Evaporation of water from soil surface                  | Rate           |
| Fdepth       | m                  | Soil frost layer depth                                  | State          |
| FO2          | mol O2 mol-1 gas   | Soil oxygen as a fraction of total gas                  | Intermediate   |
| fPerm        |                    |                                                         | Intermediate   |
| Frate        | m d-1              | Rate of increase of frost layer depth                   | Rate           |
| FREEZEL      | mm d-1             | Freezing rate of soil water                             | Rate           |
| INFIL        | mm d-1             | Water flow into soil from precipitation and snow melt   | Rate           |
| INFILTOT     | mm d-1             | Water flow into soil from aboveground compartments      | Intermediate   |
| IRRIG        | mm d-1             | Irrigation rate                                         | Rate           |
| O2           | mol m-2            | Soil oxygen content                                     | State          |
| O2IN         | mol m-2 d-1        | Influx of oxygen into the soil                          | Rate           |
| O2MX         | mol m-2            | Maximum oxygen content of soil                          | Intermediate   |
| O2OUT        | mol m-2 d-1        | Efflux of oxygen from the soil                          | Rate           |
| PERMgas      | d-1                | Permeability of soil surface to gas exchange            | Intermediate   |
| PFrate       | m d-1              |                                                         | Intermediate   |
| poolDrain    | mm d-1             | Water flow from pool to soil                            | Rate           |
| ROOTD        | m                  | Rooting depth                                           | State          |
| RplantAer    | gC m-2 d-1         | Aerobic respiration                                     | Intermediate   |
| RUNOFF       | mm d-1             | Loss of water by runoff                                 | Rate           |
| Sdepth       | m                  | Snow depth                                              | State          |
| THAWS        | mm d-1             | Water flow to soil pool from thawing of frozen soil     | Rate           |
| TRAN         | mm d-1             | Transpiration                                           | Rate           |
| WAFC         | mm                 | Water in non-frozen root zone at field capacity         | Intermediate   |
| WAL          | mm                 | Soil water amount: liquid                               | State          |
| WAS          | mm                 | Soil water amount: solid (=ice)                         | State          |
| WAST         | mm                 | Water in non-frozen root zone at saturation             | Intermediate   |
| WCeff        | m3 m-3             | Frozen soil water contributing to heat transport        | Intermediate   |
| WCL          | m3 m-3             | Water concentration in non-frozen soil                  | Intermediate   |

*** 16.7 Variables (resources.f90)

| *Variable*   | *Unit*              | *Meaning*                                            | *Type*         |
|--------------+---------------------+------------------------------------------------------+----------------|
| AVAILF       | -                   | Availability of water for evapotranspiration         | Intermediate   |
| DAYL         | d d-1               | Day length                                           | Intermediate   |
| DTR          | MJ GR m-2 d-1       | Daily global radiation                               | Intermediate   |
| DTRINT       | MJ GR m-2 d-1       | Interception of global radiation                     | Intermediate   |
| EVAP         | mm d-1              | Evaporation of water from soil surface               | Rate           |
| EXPLOR       | mm d-1              | Increased access to water by root depth growth       | Rate           |
| Fdepth       | m                   | Soil frost layer depth                               | State          |
| FR           | -                   | Transpiration realisation at sufficient soil water   | Intermediate   |
| LAI          | m2 leaf m-2         | Leaf area index                                      | State          |
| PAR          | mol PAR m-2 d-1     | Daily photosynthetically active radiation            | Intermediate   |
| PARAV        | mumol PAR m-2 s-1   | Average PAR during the photoperiod                   | Intermediate   |
| PARINT       | mol PAR m-2 d-1     | PAR interception                                     | Intermediate   |
| PEVAP        | mm d-1              | Potential rate of evaporation from the soil          | Intermediate   |
| PTRAN        | mm d-1              | Potential transpiration rate                         | Intermediate   |
| ROOTD        | m                   | Rooting depth                                        | State          |
| RROOTD       | m d-1               | Root depth growth rate                               | Rate           |
| TRAN         | mm d-1              | Transpiration                                        | Rate           |
| TRANRF       | -                   | Transpiration realisation factor                     | Intermediate   |
| WAAD         | mm                  | Water in non-frozen soil at air dryness              | Intermediate   |
| WAL          | mm                  | Soil water amount: liquid                            | State          |
| WCL          | m3 m-3              | Water concentration in non-frozen soil               | Intermediate   |

*** 16.8 Variables (plant.f90)

| *Variable*      | *Unit*                      | *Meaning*                                                                              | *Type*         |
|-----------------+-----------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------|
| ALLOLV          | gC m-2 d-1                  | Allocation of carbohydrates to leaf growth                                             | Intermediate   |
| ALLORT          | gC m-2 d-1                  | Allocation of carbohydrates to root growth                                             | Intermediate   |
| ALLOSH          | gC m-2 d-1                  | Allocation of carbohydrates to shoot growth                                            | Intermediate   |
| ALLOST          | gC m-2 d-1                  | Allocation of carbohydrates to stem growth                                             | Intermediate   |
| ALLOTOT         | gC m-2 d-1                  | Allocation of carbohydrates to sinks other than hardening                              | Intermediate   |
| CLAI            | m2 leaf m-2                 | LAI remaining after harvest                                                            | Intermediate   |
| CLV             | gC m-2                      | Weight of leaves                                                                       | State          |
| CRES            | gC m-2                      | Weight of reserves                                                                     | State          |
| CRESMX          | gC m-2                      | Maximum amount of reserves                                                             | Intermediate   |
| CRT             | gC m-2                      | Weight of roots                                                                        | State          |
| CST             | gC m-2                      | Weight of stems                                                                        | State          |
| CSTAV           | gC tiller-1                 | Average size of elongating tillers                                                     | Intermediate   |
| CSTUB           | gC m-2                      | Weight of stubble                                                                      | State          |
| DAVTMP          | °C                          | Daily average temperature                                                              | Intermediate   |
| DAYL            | d d-1                       | Day length                                                                             | Intermediate   |
| DAYLGE          | -                           | Day length effect on allocation, tillering, leaf appearance, leaf elongation           | Intermediate   |
| DeHardRate      | °C d-1                      | Dehardening rate (LT50 becoming less negative)                                         | Rate           |
| DLAI            | m2 leaf m-2 d-1             | Death rate of leaf area                                                                | Rate           |
| DLV             | gC m-2 d-1                  | Death rate of leaf mass                                                                | Rate           |
| doy             | d                           | Day of year (1 = 1 Jan)                                                                | Intermediate   |
| doySinceStart   | d                           | Days passed since start of decrease in rehardening capability                          | Intermediate   |
| DPHEN           | d-1                         | Rate of decrease of phenological stage                                                 | Rate           |
| DRT             | gC m-2 d-1                  | Death rate of roots                                                                    | Rate           |
| DSTUB           | gC m-2 d-1                  | Death rate of stubble                                                                  | Rate           |
| dTANAER         | d d-1                       | Change in days since start anaerobic conditions                                        | Rate           |
| DTILV           | tillers m-2 d-1             | Death rate of non-elongating tillers                                                   | Rate           |
| EFF             | mol CO2 mol-1 PAR quanta    | Quantum yield of photosynthesis                                                        | Intermediate   |
| EFFTMP          | degC                        | Effective temperature for leaf elongation                                              | Intermediate   |
| fAer            | -                           | Aeration status of soil                                                                | Intermediate   |
| FO2             | mol O2 mol-1 gas            | Soil oxygen as a fraction of total gas                                                 | Intermediate   |
| FRACTV          | -                           | Fraction of tillers that is not elongating                                             | Intermediate   |
| GAMMAX          | ppm CO2)                    | CO2 compensation point at no mitochondrial respiration                                 | Intermediate   |
| GLAI            | m2 leaf m-2 d-1             | Growth rate of leaf area                                                               | Rate           |
| GLAISI          | m2 leaf m-2 d-1             | Potential growth rate of leaf area                                                     | Intermediate   |
| GLV             | gC m-2 d-1                  | Growth rate of leaf mass                                                               | Rate           |
| GLVSI           | gC m-2 d-1                  | Potential growth rate of leaf mass                                                     | Intermediate   |
| GPHEN           | d-1                         | Rate of phenological development                                                       | Rate           |
| GRES            | gC m-2 d-1                  | Gross growth rate of reserve pool, uncorrected for remobilisation                      | Rate           |
| GRESSI          | gC m-2 d-1                  | Sink strength of reserve pool                                                          | Intermediate   |
| GRT             | gC m-2 d-1                  | Growth rate of roots                                                                   | Rate           |
| GSHSI           | gC m-2 d-1                  | Potential growth rate of shoot                                                         | Intermediate   |
| GST             | gC m-2 d-1                  | Growth rate of stems                                                                   | Rate           |
| GSTSI           | gC m-2 d-1                  | Potential growth rate of stems                                                         | Intermediate   |
| GSTUB           | gC m-2 d-1                  | Growth of stubble due to harvest of elongating tillers                                 | Rate           |
| HardRate        | °C d-1                      | Hardening (LT50 becoming more negative)                                                | Rate           |
| HARV            | -                           | Flag indicating that the current day is a harvest day                                  | Intermediate   |
| HARVFR          | -                           | Fraction of leaf and leaf area that is harvested                                       | Intermediate   |
| HARVLA          | m2 leaf m-2 d-1             | Harvested leaf area                                                                    | Rate           |
| HARVLV          | gC m-2 d-1                  | Harvested leaf mass                                                                    | Rate           |
| HARVPH          | d-1                         | Resetting of phenological stage by harvesting                                          | Rate           |
| HARVRE          | gC m-2 d-1                  | Harvested reserves                                                                     | Rate           |
| HARVST          | gC m-2 d-1                  | Harvested stem mass                                                                    | Rate           |
| HARVTG          | tillers m-2 d-1             | Harvested elongating tillers (apex removed by harvesting)                              | Rate           |
| KMC             | ppm CO2                     | Km-value Rubisco for carboxylation                                                     | Intermediate   |
| KMO             | % O2                        | Km-value Rubisco for oxygenation                                                       | Intermediate   |
| LAI             | m2 leaf m-2                 | Leaf area index                                                                        | State          |
| LD50            | d                           | Duration of anaerobic conditions at which death rate is half the maximum               | Intermediate   |
| LERG            | m d-1                       | Elongation rate of leaves on elongating tillers                                        | Intermediate   |
| LERV            | m d-1                       | Elongation rate of leaves on non-elongating tillers                                    | Intermediate   |
| LT50            | °C                          | Temperature that kills half the plants in a day                                        | State          |
| LUEMXQ          | mol CO2 mol-1 PAR           | Light-use efficiency                                                                   | Intermediate   |
| NELLVG          | tiller-1                    | Number of elongating leaves per elongating tiller                                      | Intermediate   |
| NOHARV          | -                           | Flag indicating that the current day is not a harvest day                              | Intermediate   |
| PARAV           | mumol PAR m-2 s-1           | Average PAR during the photoperiod                                                     | Intermediate   |
| PARINT          | mol PAR m-2 d-1             | PAR interception                                                                       | Intermediate   |
| PERMgas         | d-1                         | Permeability of soil surface to gas exchange                                           | Intermediate   |
| PHEN            | -                           | Phenological stage                                                                     | State          |
| PHENRF          | -                           | Effect of phenological stage on leaf elongation and appearance in elongating tillers   | Intermediate   |
| PHOT            | gC m-2 d-1                  | Photosynthesis                                                                         | Intermediate   |
| PMAX            | micromol CO2 m-2 s-1        | Photosynthesis rate of upper leaves at light saturation                                | Intermediate   |
| RATED           | °C d-1                      | Potential rate of dehardening, if below limit set by RATEDMX                           | Intermediate   |
| RATEH           | °C d-1                      | Potential rate of hardening, at non-limiting carbohydrate spply                        | Intermediate   |
| RDRFROST        | d-1                         | Relative death rate due to frost                                                       | Intermediate   |
| RDRTOX          | d-1                         | Relative death rate due to anaerobic conditions                                        | Intermediate   |
| RDRS            | d-1                         | Relative death rate of leaves and non-elongating tillers due to shading                | Intermediate   |
| RDRT            | d-1                         | Relative leaf death rate due to high temperature                                       | Intermediate   |
| reHardPeriod    | -                           | Day of year dependent hardening capability                                             | Intermediate   |
| RESMOB          | gC m-2 d-1                  | Mobilisation of reserves                                                               | Rate           |
| RESNOR          | -                           | Normalised concentration of reserves                                                   | Intermediate   |
| RESPGSH         | gC m-2 d-1                  | Respiration associated with shoot growth                                               | Intermediate   |
| RESPGRT         | gC m-2 d-1                  | Respiration associated with root growth                                                | Intermediate   |
| RESPHARD        | gC m-2 d-1                  | Plant hardening respiration                                                            | Intermediate   |
| RESPHARDSI      | gC m-2 d-1                  | Sink strength from carbohydrate demand of hardening                                    | Intermediate   |
| RGRTVG          | d-1                         | Relative rate of tillers becoming elongating tillers                                   | Intermediate   |
| RLEAF           | d-1                         | Leaf appearance rate per tiller                                                        | Intermediate   |
| RplantAer       | gC m-2 d-1                  | Aerobic plant respiration                                                              | Intermediate   |
| RSR3H           | d-1                         | Relative frost survival rate                                                           | Intermediate   |
| RSRDAY          | d-1                         | Relative frost survival rate                                                           | Intermediate   |
| SINK1T          | gC tiller-1 d-1             | Sink strength of individual elongating tillers                                         | Intermediate   |
| SLANEW          | m2 leaf gC-1                | SLA of new leaf                                                                        | Intermediate   |
| SOURCE          | gC m-2 d-1                  | Source strength from photsynthesis and reserve mobilisation                            | Intermediate   |
| T               | °C                          | Temperature                                                                            | Input          |
| TANAER          | d                           | Time since start anaerobic conditions                                                  | State          |
| TGE             | -                           | Temperature effect on initiation of elongation in tillers                              | Intermediate   |
| TILG            | m-2                         | Elongating tiller density                                                              | State          |
| TILV            | m-2                         | Non-elongating tiller density                                                          | State          |
| TMPFAC          | -                           | Linear decrease of photosynthetic quantum yield at low temperature                     | Intermediate   |
| TRANRF          | -                           | Transpiration realisation factor                                                       | Intermediate   |
| Tsurf           | °C                          | Soil surface temperature                                                               | Intermediate   |
| TV1             | -                           | Fraction of reserves removed at harvest                                                | Intermediate   |
| TV1             | d-1                         | Potential leaf appearance rate                                                         | Intermediate   |
| TV1             | d-1                         | Relative leaf death rate due to shading if below the maximum rate                      | Intermediate   |
| TV2             | d-1                         | Maxmimum ratio of tiller and leaf apearance, at unlimited reserves                     | Intermediate   |
| TV2             | d-1                         | Relative leaf death rate                                                               | Intermediate   |
| TV2TIL          | d-1                         | Relative death rate of non-elongating tillers                                          | Intermediate   |
| VCMAX           | micromol CO2 m-2 leaf s-1   | Maximum carboxylation rate in upper leaves                                             | Intermediate   |

** 17 APPENDIX III: Parameters

*** 17.1 Introductory comments

-  Areas (m2) are ground area unless otherwise indicated.

-  Soil water amounts are given as "mm" water, which is equivalent to
   "kg water m-2 ground area".

*** 17.2 Parameters in BASGRA.f90

| *Parameter*   | *Unit*             | *Meaning*                                     | *Declared where*        | *Quantified where*        |
|---------------+--------------------+-----------------------------------------------+-------------------------+---------------------------|
| CLVI          | gC m-2             | Initial value of leaves                       | parameters\_plant.f90   | parameters\_default.txt   |
| CRESI         | gC m-2             | Initial value of reserves                     | parameters\_plant.f90   | parameters\_default.txt   |
| CRTI          | gC m-2             | Initial value of roots                        | parameters\_plant.f90   | parameters\_default.txt   |
| CSTI          | gC m-2             | Initial value of stems                        | parameters\_plant.f90   | parameters\_default.txt   |
| FGAS          | m3 m-3             | Soil pore space (potentially gaseous)         | parameters\_site.f90    | parameters\_default.txt   |
| FO2MX         | mol O2 mol-1 gas   | Maximum oxygen fraction of soil gas           | parameters\_site.f90    | parameters\_default.txt   |
| FRTILGI       | -                  | Initial value of elongating tiller fraction   | parameters\_plant.f90   | parameters\_default.txt   |
| LAII          | m2 m-2             | Initial value of leaf area index              | parameters\_plant.f90   | parameters\_default.txt   |
| LT50I         | °C                 | Initial value of LT50                         | parameters\_plant.f90   | parameters\_default.txt   |
| PHENI         | -                  | Initial value of phenological stage           | parameters\_plant.f90   | parameters\_default.txt   |
| RHOnewSnow    | kg SWE m-3         | Density of newly fallen snow                  | parameters\_site.f90    | parameters\_default.txt   |
| ROOTDM        | m                  | Initial and maximum value rooting depth       | parameters\_plant.f90   | parameters\_default.txt   |
| TILTOTI       | m-2                | Initial value of tiller density               | parameters\_plant.f90   | parameters\_default.txt   |
| WCI           | m3 m-3             | Initial value of soil water concentration     | parameters\_site.f90    | parameters\_default.txt   |

*** 17.3 Parameters in environment.f90

| *Parameter*   | *Unit*        | *Meaning*                                                | *Declared where*       | *Quantified where*        |
|---------------+---------------+----------------------------------------------------------+------------------------+---------------------------|
| KSNOW         | mm-1          | Light extinction coefficient of snow                     | parameters\_site.f90   | parameters\_default.txt   |
| LAT           | °N            | latitude                                                 | parameters\_site.f90   | parameters\_default.txt   |
| RHOpack       | d-1           | Relative packing rate of snow                            | parameters\_site.f90   | parameters\_default.txt   |
| SWret         | mm mm-1 d-1   | Liquid water storage capacity of snow                    | parameters\_site.f90   | parameters\_default.txt   |
| SWrf          | mm d-1 °C-1   | Maximum refreezing rate per degree below 'TmeltFreeze'   | parameters\_site.f90   | parameters\_default.txt   |
| TmeltFreeze   | °C            | Temperature above which snow melts                       | parameters\_site.f90   | parameters\_default.txt   |
| TrainSnow     | °C            | Temperature below which precipitation is snow            | parameters\_site.f90   | parameters\_default.txt   |
| WpoolMax      | mm            | Maximum pool water (liquid plus ice)                     | parameters\_site.f90   | parameters\_default.txt   |

*** 17.4 Parameters in soil.f90

| *Parameter*   | *Unit*             | *Meaning*                                    | *Declared where*       | *Quantified where*        |
|---------------+--------------------+----------------------------------------------+------------------------+---------------------------|
| FGAS          | -                  | Fraction of soil volume that is gaseous      | parameters\_site.f90   | parameters\_default.txt   |
| FO2MX         | mol O2 mol-1 gas   | Maximum oxygen fraction of soil gas          | parameters\_site.f90   | parameters\_default.txt   |
| gamma         | m-1                | Temperature extinction coefficient of snow   | parameters\_site.f90   | parameters\_default.txt   |
| KRTOTAER      | -                  | Ratio of total to aerobic respiration        | parameters\_site.f90   | parameters\_default.txt   |
| LAMBDAsoil    | J m-1 degC-1 d-1   |                                              | parameters\_site.f90   | parameters\_default.txt   |
| WCFC          | m3 m-3             | Water concentration at field capacity        | parameters\_site.f90   | parameters\_default.txt   |
| WCST          | m3 m-3             | Water concentration at saturation            | parameters\_site.f90   | parameters\_default.txt   |

*** 17.5 Parameters in resources.f90

| *Parameter*   | *Unit*        | *Meaning*                                                  | *Declared where*        | *Quantified where*        |
|---------------+---------------+------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------+---------------------------|
| K             | m2 m-2 leaf   | PAR extinction coefficient                                 | parameters\_plant.f90   | parameters\_default.txt   |
| ROOTDM        | m             | Initial and maximum value rooting depth                    | parameters\_plant.f90   | parameters\_default.txt   |
| RRDMAX        | m d-1         | Maximum root depth growth rate                             | parameters\_plant.f90   | parameters\_default.txt   |
| TRANCO        | mm d-1        | Transpiration coefficient                                  | parameters\_plant.f90   | parameters\_default.txt   |
| WCAD          | m3 m-3        | Water concentration at air dryness                         | parameters\_site.f90    | parameters\_default.txt   |
| WCFC          | m3 m-3        | Water concentration at field capacity                      | parameters\_site.f90    | parameters\_default.txt   |
| WCST          | m3 m-3        | Water concentration at full saturation                     | parameters\_site.f90    | parameters\_default.txt   |
| WCWET         | m3 m-3        | Water concentration above which transpiration is reduced   | parameters\_site.f90    | parameters\_default.txt   |
| WCWP          | m3 m-3        | Water concentration at wilting point                       | parameters\_site.f90    | parameters\_default.txt   |

*** 17.6 Parameters in plant.f90

| *Parameter*      | *Unit*             | *Meaning*                                                                | *Declared where*        | *Quantified where*        |
|------------------+--------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------+---------------------------|
| CLAIV            | m2 leaf m-2        | Maxmimum LAI remaining after harvest, when no tillers elongate           | parameters\_plant.f90   | parameters\_default.txt   |
| COCRESMX         | -                  | Maximum concentration of reserves in aboveground biomass (not stubble)   | parameters\_plant.f90   | parameters\_default.txt   |
| CSTAVM           | gC tiller-1        | Maximum size of elongating tillers                                       | parameters\_plant.f90   | parameters\_default.txt   |
| DAYLB            | d d-1              | Day length below which phenological stage is reset to zero               | parameters\_plant.f90   | parameters\_default.txt   |
| DAYLP            | d d-1              | Day length below which phenological development slows down               | parameters\_plant.f90   | parameters\_default.txt   |
| DLMXGE           | d d-1              | Day length below which DAYLGE becomes less than 1                        | parameters\_plant.f90   | parameters\_default.txt   |
| Dparam           | °C-1 d-1           | Constant in the calculation of dehardening rate                          | parameters\_plant.f90   | parameters\_default.txt   |
| FO2MX            | mol O2 mol-1 gas   | Maximum oxygen fraction of soil gas                                      | parameters\_site.f90    | parameters\_default.txt   |
| FSLAMIN          | -                  | Minimum SLA of new leaves as a fraction of maximum possible SLA          | parameters\_plant.f90   | parameters\_default.txt   |
| FSMAX            | -                  | Maximum ratio of tiller and leaf appearance based on sward geometry      | parameters\_plant.f90   | parameters\_default.txt   |
| HAGERE           | -                  | Fraction of reserves in elongating tillers that is harvested             | parameters\_plant.f90   | parameters\_default.txt   |
| Hparam           | °C-1 d-1           | Hardening parameter                                                      | parameters\_plant.f90   | parameters\_default.txt   |
| K                | m2 m-2 leaf        | PAR extinction coefficient                                               | parameters\_plant.f90   | parameters\_default.txt   |
| KLUETILG         | -                  | LUE-increase with increasing fraction elongating tillers                 | parameters\_plant.f90   | parameters\_default.txt   |
| KRDRANAER        | d-1                | Maximum relative death rate due to anearobic conditions                  | parameters\_plant.f90   | parameters\_default.txt   |
| KRESPHARD        | gC gC-1 °C-1       | Carbohydrate requirement of hardening                                    | parameters\_plant.f90   | parameters\_default.txt   |
| KRSR3H           | °C-1               | Constant in the logistic curve for frost survival                        | parameters\_plant.f90   | parameters\_default.txt   |
| LAICR            | m2 leaf m-2        | LAI above which shading induces leaf senescence                          | parameters\_plant.f90   | parameters\_default.txt   |
| LAIEFT           | m2 m-2 leaf        | Decrease in tillering with leaf area index                               | parameters\_plant.f90   | parameters\_default.txt   |
| LAITIL           | -                  | Maximum ratio of tiller and leaf apearance at low leaf area index        | parameters\_plant.f90   | parameters\_default.txt   |
| LDT50A           | d                  | Intercept of linear dependence of LD50 on lT50                           | parameters\_plant.f90   | parameters\_default.txt   |
| LDT50B           | d °C-1             | Slope of linear dependence of LD50 on LT50                               | parameters\_plant.f90   | parameters\_default.txt   |
| LFWIDG           | m                  | Leaf width on elongating tillers                                         | parameters\_plant.f90   | parameters\_default.txt   |
| LFWIDV           | m                  | Leaf width on non-elongating tillers                                     | parameters\_plant.f90   | parameters\_default.txt   |
| LT50MN           | °C                 | Minimum LT50                                                             | parameters\_plant.f90   | parameters\_default.txt   |
| LT50MX           | °C                 | Maximum LT50                                                             | parameters\_plant.f90   | parameters\_default.txt   |
| NELLVM           | tiller-1           | Number of elongating leaves per non-elongating tiller                    | parameters\_plant.f90   | parameters\_default.txt   |
| PHENCR           | -                  | Phenological stage above which elongation and appearance of leaves on    | parameters\_plant.f90   | parameters\_default.txt   |
|                  |                    | elongating tillers decreases                                             |                         |                           |
| PHY              | °C d               | Phyllochron                                                              | parameters\_plant.f90   | parameters\_default.txt   |
| RATEDMX          | °C d-1             | Maximum dehardening rate                                                 | parameters\_plant.f90   | parameters\_default.txt   |
| RDRSCO           | d-1                | Relative death rate of leaves and non-elongating tillers due to          | parameters\_plant.f90   | parameters\_default.txt   |
|                  |                    | shading when LAI is twice the threshold (LAICR)                          |                         |                           |
| RDRSMX           | d-1                | Maximum relative death rate of leaves and non-elongating tillers due     | parameters\_plant.f90   | parameters\_default.txt   |
|                  |                    | to shading                                                               |                         |                           |
| RDRTEM           | d-1 °C-1           | Proportionality of leaf senescence with temperature                      | parameters\_plant.f90   | parameters\_default.txt   |
| reHardRedStart   | d                  | Start of period of decrease in rehardening capability                    | plant.f90               | plant.f90                 |
| reHardRedDay     | d                  | Duration of period over which rehardening capability disappears          | parameters\_plant.f90   | parameters\_default.txt   |
| RGENMX           | d-1                | Maximum relative rate of tillers becoming elongating tillers             | parameters\_plant.f90   | parameters\_default.txt   |
| RUBISC           | g m-2 leaf         | Rubisco content of upper leaves                                          | parameters\_plant.f90   | parameters\_default.txt   |
| RUBISCN          | mumol m-2 leaf     | Rubisco content of upper leaves                                          | plant.f90               | plant.f90                 |
| SHAPE            | -                  | Area of a leaf relative to a rectangle of same length and width          | parameters\_plant.f90   | parameters\_default.txt   |
| SIMAX1T          | gC tiller-1 d-1    | Sink strength of small elongating tillers                                | parameters\_plant.f90   | parameters\_default.txt   |
| SLAMAX           | m2 leaf gC-1       | Maximum SLA of new leaves                                                | parameters\_plant.f90   | parameters\_default.txt   |
| SLAMIN           | m2 leaf gC-1       | Minimum SLA of new leaves (= SLAMAX * FSLAMIN)                           | plant.f90               | plant.f90                 |
| TBASE            | °C                 | Minimum value of effective temperature for leaf elongation               | parameters\_plant.f90   | parameters\_default.txt   |
|                  |                    | Minimum soil surface temperature for leaf appearance                     |                         |                           |
| TCRES            | d                  | Time constant of mobilisation of reserves                                | parameters\_plant.f90   | parameters\_default.txt   |
| THARDMX          | °C                 | Maximum surface temperature at which hardening is possible               | parameters\_plant.f90   | parameters\_default.txt   |
| TsurfDiff        | °C                 | Constant in the calculation of dehardening rate                          | parameters\_plant.f90   | parameters\_default.txt   |
| YG               | gC gC-1            | Growth yield per unit expended carbohydrate                              | parameters\_plant.f90   | parameters\_default.txt   |

** 18 APPENDIX IV: Constants

*** 18.1 Introductory comments

-  Areas (m2) are ground area unless otherwise indicated.

-  Soil water amounts are given as "mm" water, which is equivalent to
   "kg water m-2 ground area".

*** 18.2 Constants in BASGRA.f90

| *Constant*   | *Value*   | *Unit*     | *Meaning*                                 | *Declared where*        | *Quantified where*              |
|--------------+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------------+-------------------------+---------------------------------|
|              | 0.40      | gC gDM-1   | C-content reserves                        | -                       | BASGRA.f90                      |
|              | 0.45      | gC gDM-1   | C-content leaves, stems, stubble          | -                       | BASGRA.f90                      |
|              | 0.5       | d          | Constant in calculation decimal year      | -                       | BASGRA.f90                      |
|              | 1000      | l m-3      | Volumetric unit conversion                | -                       | BASGRA.f90                      |
|              | 1000      | mm m-1     | Length unit conversion                    | -                       | BASGRA.f90                      |
|              | 22.4      | l mol-1    | Molar volume                              | -                       | BASGRA.f90                      |
|              | 366       | d y-1      | Constant in calculation decimal year      | -                       | BASGRA.f90                      |
| CLVDI        | 0.        | gC m-2     | Initial value of cumulative dead leaves   | parameters\_plant.f90   | parameters\_plant.f90           |
| CLVHI        | 0.        | gC m-2     | Initial value of harvested leaves         | parameters\_plant.f90   | parameters\_plant.f90           |
| CSTUBI       | 0.        | gC m-2     | Initial value of stubble                  | parameters\_plant.f90   | parameters\_plant.f90           |
| DRYSTORI     | 0.        | mm         | Initial value of snow amount              | parameters\_site.f90    | parameters\_site.f90            |
| FdepthI      | 0.        | m          | Initial value of depth frozen soil        | parameters\_site.f90    | parameters\_site.f90            |
| NDAYS        |           | d          | Length of simulation period               | BASGRA.f90              | initialise\_BASGRA\_[site].R    |
| NOUT         | 35        | -          | Number of output variables                | BASGRA.f90              | initialise\_BASGRA\_general.R   |
| SDEPTHI      | 0.        | m          | Initial value of snow depth               | parameters\_site.f90    | parameters\_site.f90            |
| TANAERI      | 0.        | d          | Initial value of anaerobic days           | parameters\_site.f90    | parameters\_site.f90            |
| WAPLI        | 0.        | mm         | Initial value of pool water (liquid)      | parameters\_site.f90    | parameters\_site.f90            |
| WAPSI        | 0.        | mm         | Initial value of pool water (solid)       | parameters\_site.f90    | parameters\_site.f90            |
| WASI         | 0.        | mm         | Initial value of soil water (solid)       | parameters\_site.f90    | parameters\_site.f90            |
| WETSTORI     | 0.        | mm         | Initial value of liquid water in snow     | parameters\_site.f90    | parameters\_site.f90            |

*** 18.3 Constants in read\_weather.f90

| *Constant*    | *Value*   | *Unit*    | *Meaning*                              | *Declared where*    | *Quantified where*             |
|---------------+-----------+-----------+----------------------------------------+---------------------+--------------------------------|
|               | 0.6108    | kPa       | Constant in calculation saturated VP   | -                   | -                              |
|               | 17.27     | °C-1      | Constant in calculation saturated VP   | -                   | -                              |
|               | 239       | °C        | Constant in calculation saturated VP   | -                   | -                              |
|               | 100       | %         | Fraction unit conversion               | -                   | -                              |
|               | 1000      | kJ MJ-1   | Energy unit conversion                 | -                   | -                              |
| doy\_start    |           | d         | Start day of simulation                | read\_weather.f90   | initialise\_BASGRA\_[site].R   |
| NDAYS         |           | d         | Length of simulation period            | BASGRA.f90          | initialise\_BASGRA\_[site].R   |
| ST            |           | -         | Weather station number                 | read\_weather.f90   | weather data file              |
| year\_start   |           | y         | Start year of simulation               | read\_weather.f90   | initialise\_BASGRA\_[site].R   |

*** 18.4 Constants in environment.f90

| *Constant*       | *Value*       | *Unit*             | *Meaning*                                                      | *Declared where*       | *Quantified where*     |
|------------------+---------------+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------+------------------------|
|                  | 0.001         | m mm-1             | Length unit conversion                                         | -                      | environment.f90        |
|                  | 0.001         | MJ J-1             | Energy unit conversion                                         | -                      | environment.f90        |
|                  | 0.15          | -                  | Reflection coefficient of global radiation onto soil           | -                      | environment.f90        |
|                  | 0.25          | -                  | Reflection coefficient of global radiation onto canopy         | -                      | environment.f90        |
|                  | 0.25          | mm m-2 leaf d-1    | Maximum canopy rain interception efficiency                    | -                      | environment.f90        |
|                  | 0.5           | -                  | Efficiency of transpiration reduction by intercepted rain      | -                      | environment.f90        |
|                  | 0.5           | d d-1              | Constant in calculation day length                             | -                      | environment.f90        |
|                  | 0.5           | J PAR J-1 GR       | PAR as a fraction of GR                                        | -                      | environment.f90        |
|                  | 0.5           | m2 m-2 leaf        | Extinction coefficient global radiation                        | -                      | environment.f90        |
|                  | 0.54          | s m-1              | Constant in wind factor Penman equation                        | -                      | environment.f90        |
|                  | 0.55          | -                  | Maximum ratio of net long-wave to black-body radiation         | -                      | environment.f90        |
|                  | 0.611         | kPa                | Saturation vapour pressure at zero degrees Celsius             | -                      | environment.f90        |
|                  | 1.0           | -                  | Constant in wind factor Penman equation                        | -                      | environment.f90        |
|                  | 1.E6          | J MJ-1             | Energy unit conversion                                         | -                      | environment.f90        |
|                  | 10.           | d                  | Difference between 21 June and midyear                         | -                      | environment.f90        |
|                  | 1000.         | mm m-1             | Length unit conversion                                         | -                      | environment.f90        |
|                  | 17.4          | -                  | Constant in calculation saturation vapour pressure             | -                      | environment.f90        |
|                  | 174.          | d                  | Constant in calculation snow melting rate                      | -                      | environment.f90        |
|                  | 2             | -                  | Power coefficient in calculation of 'eta'                      | -                      | environment.f90        |
|                  | 2             | -                  | POwer coefficient in temperature derivative of SVP             | -                      | environment.f90        |
|                  | 2.            | -                  | Constant in calculation of 'PIrate'                            | -                      | environment.f90        |
|                  | 2.            | rad                | Angle of a pi-th part of a circle                              | -                      | environment.f90        |
|                  | 2.0           | -                  | Constant in calculation daily average temperature              | -                      | environment.f90        |
|                  | 2.63          | kg m-2 d-1 kPa-1   | Constant in wind factor Penman equation                        | -                      | environment.f90        |
|                  | 23.45         | °                  | Solar declination at June 21                                   | -                      | environment.f90        |
|                  | 239           | °C                 | Constant in calculation saturation vapour pressure             | -                      | environment.f90        |
|                  | 273           | K                  | Temperature unit conversion                                    | -                      | environment.f90        |
|                  | 365.          | d                  | Number of days per year                                        | -                      | environment.f90        |
|                  | 4             | -                  | Power coefficient in calculation black-body radiation          | -                      | environment.f90        |
|                  | 4.56          | mol MJ-1 PAR       | Quanta per MJ PAR                                              | -                      | environment.f90        |
|                  | 4158.6        | °C                 | Constant in temperature derivative of SVP (= 17.4 * 239)       | -                      | environment.f90        |
|                  | 480.          | kg m-3             | Maximum snow density                                           | -                      | environment.f90        |
|                  | 86400         | s d-1              | Time unit conversion                                           | -                      | environment.f90        |
|                  | 91.           | d                  | Constant in calculation snow melting rate                      | -                      | environment.f90        |
| Ampl             | 0.625         | mm °C-1 d-1        | Intra-annual amplitude snow melt at 1 degree > 'TmeltFreeze'   | parameters\_site.f90   | parameters\_site.f90   |
| Bias             | 4.625         | mm °C-1 d-1        | Average snow melting rate at 1 degree above 'TmeltFreeze'      | parameters\_site.f90   | parameters\_site.f90   |
| BOLTZM           | 5.668E-8      | J m-2 s-1 K-4      | Stefan-Boltzmann constant                                      |                        |                        |
| eta              | 0.0005777     | m2 K-1 d-1         | Compound parameter (= LAMBDAice/(RHOwater*LatentHeat))         |                        |                        |
| Freq             | 2.*pi/365.    | rad d-1            | Unit conversion time to annual cycle                           | parameters\_site.f90   | parameters\_site.f90   |
| LAMBDAice        | 1.9354e+005   | J m-1 K-1 d-1      | Thermal conductivity of ice                                    | parameters\_site.f90   | parameters\_site.f90   |
| LatentHeat       | 335000        | J kg-1             | Latent heat of water fusion                                    | parameters\_site.f90   | parameters\_site.f90   |
| LHVAP            | 2.4E6         | J kg-1             | Latent heat of water evaporation                               |                        |                        |
| NMAXDAYS         | 365*200       | d                  | Maxmimum length of weather data files                          |                        |                        |
| pi               | 3.1416        | -                  | ratio of circle circumference and diameter                     | parameters\_site.f90   | parameters\_site.f90   |
| poolInfilLimit   | 0.2           | m                  | Soil frost depth limit for water infiltration                  | parameters\_site.f90   | parameters\_site.f90   |
| PSYCH            | 0.067         | kPA °C-1           | Psychrometric constant                                         |                        |                        |
| RAD              | pi/180.       | radians °-1        | Angular unit conversion                                        |                        |                        |
| RHOwater         | 1000          | kg m-3             | Density of water                                               | parameters\_site.f90   | parameters\_site.f90   |

*** 18.5 Constants in soil.f90

| *Constant*   | *Value*   | *Unit*           | *Meaning*                                                   | *Declared where*       | *Quantified where*     |
|--------------+-----------+------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------+------------------------|
|              | 1.        | mol O2 mol-1 C   | Oxygen use in respiration                                   | -                      | soil.f90               |
|              | 1000      | mm m-1           | Length unit conversion                                      | -                      | soil.f90               |
|              | 12        | gC mol-1         | Molar mass of carbon                                        | -                      | soil.f90               |
|              | 22.4      | l mol-1          | Molar volume of gas                                         | -                      | soil.f90               |
| DELT         | 1         | d                | Model time step                                             | parameters\_site.f90   | parameters\_site.f90   |
| DRATE        | 50        | mm d-1           | Maximum drainage rate                                       | parameters\_site.f90   | parameters\_site.f90   |
| IRRIGF       | 0         | -                | Irrigation relative to what would maintain field capacity   | parameters\_site.f90   | parameters\_site.f90   |
| LatentHeat   | 335000    | J kg-1           | Latent heat of water fusion                                 | parameters\_site.f90   | parameters\_site.f90   |
| RHOwater     | 1000      | kg m-3           | Density of water                                            | parameters\_site.f90   | parameters\_site.f90   |

*** 18.6 Constants in resources.f90

| *Constant*   | *Value*   | *Unit*        | *Meaning*                                              | *Declared where*       | *Quantified where*     |
|--------------+-----------+---------------+--------------------------------------------------------+------------------------+------------------------|
|              | 0.001     | m mm-1        | Length unit conversion                                 | -                      | resources.f90          |
|              | 0.01      | m3 m-3        | Minimum difference between WCCR and WCWP               | -                      | resources.f90          |
|              | 0.75      | -             | Ratio of interception efficiencies for GR and PAR      | -                      | resources.f90          |
|              | 1         | -             | Maximum PAR interception                               | -                      | resources.f90          |
|              | 1.        | -             | Maximum availability of water for evapotranspiration   | -                      | resources.f90          |
|              | 1000      | mm m-1        | Length unit conversion                                 | -                      | resources.f90          |
|              | 1E6       | mumol mol-1   | Quantity unit conversion                               | -                      | resources.f90          |
|              | 24        | h d-1         | Time unit conversion                                   | -                      | resources.f90          |
|              | 3600      | s h-1         | Time unit conversion                                   | -                      | resources.f90          |
| DELT         | 1         | d             | Model time step                                        | parameters\_site.f90   | parameters\_site.f90   |

*** 18.7 Constants in plant.f90

| *Constant*     | *Value*    | *Unit*                      | *Meaning*                                                                    | *Declared where*        | *Quantified where*             |
|----------------+------------+-----------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------+--------------------------------|
|                | 0.01       | °C                          | Constant in the equation for phenological development                        | -                       | plant.f90                      |
|                | 0.000144   |                             | Constant in the equation for phenological development                        | -                       | plant.f90                      |
|                | 0.24       | d d-1                       | Constant in the equation for phenological development                        | -                       | plant.f90                      |
|                | 0.5        | -                           | Constant in the equation for the CO2 compensation point                      | -                       | plant.f90                      |
|                | 0.5        | -                           | Normalised duration of period without rehardening capability                 | -                       | plant.f90                      |
|                | 0.5        | -                           | Sink strength of reserve pool relative to what would fill it maximally       | -                       | plant.f90                      |
|                | 0.5        | d-1                         | Maximum relative death rate due to frost                                     | -                       | plant.f90                      |
|                | 0.7        | -                           | Ratio of chloroplast to atmospheric CO2 concentration                        | -                       | plant.f90                      |
|                | 1.         | d d-1                       | Rate of increase of TANAER when soil permeability to gas is zero             | -                       | plant.f90                      |
|                | 1000.      | mm m-1                      | Length unit conversion                                                       | -                       | plant.f90                      |
|                | 10.5       | ppm-1 CO2                   | Constant in calculation quantum yield                                        | -                       | plant.f90                      |
|                | 12.        | gC mol-1 CO2                | Carbon content of a mole of CO2                                              | -                       | plant.f90                      |
|                | 1.E6       | mumol mol-1                 | Quantity unit conversion                                                     | -                       | plant.f90                      |
|                | 2.1        | mol PAR mol-1 CO2           | Photon requirement of photosynthesis                                         | -                       | plant.f90                      |
|                | 24.        |                             | Constant in the equation for phenological development                        | -                       | plant.f90                      |
|                | 0.52       | mm d-1 °C-1                 | Constant in equation for leaf elongation on non-elongating tillers           | -                       | plant.f90                      |
|                | 0.76       | mm d-1                      | Constant in equation for leaf elongation on non-elongating tillers           | -                       | plant.f90                      |
|                | 2.80       | mm d-1 °C-1                 | Constant in equation for leaf elongation on elongating tillers               | -                       | plant.f90                      |
|                | 273.       | °C                          | Constant in temperature dependence of VCMAC, KMC and KMO                     | -                       | plant.f90                      |
|                | 298.       | °C                          | Constant in temperature dependence of VCMAC, KMC and KMO                     | -                       | plant.f90                      |
|                | 365.       | d                           | Constant in calculation period of possible rehardening                       | -                       | plant.f90                      |
|                | 4.         | °C                          | Constant in calculation low-temperature reduction of quantum yield           | -                       | plant.f90                      |
|                | 4.5        | ppm-1 CO2                   | Constant in calculation quantum yield                                        | -                       | plant.f90                      |
|                | 5.         | °C                          | Temperature below which reserve mobilisation slows down                      | -                       | plant.f90                      |
|                | 5.         | °C                          | Constant in calculation low-temperature reduction of quantum yield           | -                       | plant.f90                      |
|                | 5.         | -                           | Constant in calculation of reserve limitation of rehardening sink strength   | -                       | plant.f90                      |
|                | 5.46       | mm d-1                      | Constant in equation for leaf elongation on elongating tillers               | -                       | plant.f90                      |
|                | 550000     | g mol-1                     | Molar mass of Rubisco                                                        | -                       | plant.f90                      |
| CO2A           | 350        | ppm                         | CO2 concentration in atmosphere                                              | parameters\_site.f90    | parameters\_site.f90           |
| CO2I           | 0.7*350    | ppm                         | CO2 concentration in chloroplasts                                            | plant.f90               | plant.f90                      |
| DELT           | 1          | d                           | Model time step                                                              | parameters\_site.f90    | parameters\_site.f90           |
| doyHA(1:3)     |            | d                           | Harvest days                                                                 | parameters\_site.f90    | initialise\_BASGRA\_[site].R   |
| EA             | -          |                             | Unused constant                                                              |                         |                                |
| EAVCMX         | 68000      | J mol-1                     | Activation energy for VCMAX                                                  | plant.f90               | plant.f90                      |
| EAKMC          | 65800      | J mol-1                     | Activation energy for KMC                                                    | plant.f90               | plant.f90                      |
| EAKMO          | 1400       | J mol-1                     | Activation energy for KMO                                                    | plant.f90               | plant.f90                      |
| KC25           | 20         | mol CO2 mol-1 Rubisco s-1   | Catalytic efficiency of Rubisco at 25 degC                                   | plant.f90               | plant.f90                      |
| KMC25          | 460        | ppm CO2                     | Km-value Rubisco for carboxylation at 25 degC                                | plant.f90               | plant.f90                      |
| KMO25          | 33         | % O2                        | Km-value Rubisco for oxygenation at 25 degC                                  | plant.f90               | plant.f90                      |
| KOKC           | 0.21       | -                           | Catalytic efficiency ratio Rubisco oxygenation/carboxylation                 | plant.f90               | plant.f90                      |
| O2             | 21         | % O2                        | Oxygen concentration in chloroplasts                                         | plant.f90               | plant.f90                      |
| R              | 8.314      | J K-1 mol-1                 | Universal gas constant                                                       | plant.f90               | plant.f90                      |
| RDRROOT        | 0.         | d-1                         | Relative death rate of roots                                                 | parameters\_plant.f90   | parameters\_plant.f90          |
| RDRSTUB        | 0.2        | d-1                         | Relative death rate of stubble                                               | parameters\_plant.f90   | parameters\_plant.f90          |
| reHardRedEnd   | 91         | d                           | day of year at which rehardening capability becomes zero                     | parameters\_plant.f90   | parameters\_plant.f90          |
